FBI Director Christopher wray and FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe
 IIIAnti-Terrorist and Monetary Crimes Division Fbi Headquarters In
Washington, D.C. Federal Bureau Of Investigation.
 FBI-Washington Field Office 601 Street, NW Washington, DC 20535
 Website: www.fbi.gov Email (fbiheadquarter4@gmail.com  )text only +1 626 467 3338

Attention: Dear,
Am writing to make you understand that this is FBI Director Christopher wray i head has been informed about your refusal to comply with the directives from the FBI and we are going ahead with the arrest by today and tomorrow.

 We monitored your contact with this co-men through our global tracking device that detect all the incoming and outgoing e-mails and telephone calls globally from all the countries of the world, We have your e-mail address under our monitoring device set-up any more e-mails to the fraudsters from you will be automatically detected.

 Our concern in this issue is for your name to be cleared from the scammers list which has already been submitted to all the crimes agencies in Benin, Germany, Canada ,London and United States Of America, We make sure that the laws are followed to the core and this is why the Benin Government which its citizen carried out the
fraudulent activities with your information's which you sent to them have to compensate you with the amount as regards the FBI Laws of Sub-Section 05/16 Of the United Nations Anti-crimes laws.

We have in our file your details which you sent to them and we have checked and found out that you are a honest and hard working person and by this regards we decided to persuade the Benin Government to compensate you for the evil deeds that was carried out with your name.

The German man knows that you are the person because he was duped with your identity and this fraudulent activities was carried out by the same people who you have been forwarding your information's/details to all this while with the pretense of dealing with the right offices in Africa and other countries of the world.

You will have to get the CLEARANCE FORM from the office of the High Court of Justice in Benin Republic at the sum of $200 Usd. This certificate will enable you to get access to the compensation funds of $2.5Million Usd which was offered to you by the Benin Republic Government and don't forget that you need to get the document within 3days from now as you already know the deadline given to you to secure
 the document.

 If not for the fact that we checked your data before acting towards this directives given to us, you would have been arrested by now and jailed because of your association with criminals in the internet and don't forget our warnings to you.

 You will have to forward your bank account details to us where you want this $2.5Million Usd to be transferred into as soon as you secure the CLEARANCE FORM.

 The German business man who was duped with your identity has reported this case to the world court and it will involve the Government of both countries which are Germany and Yours and that is the reason why you must get this document immediately so as to avoid anybody calling your name as being among the fraudsters.

With the Certificate, you are free from any form of crimes as your data shows that you are a honest and respectable person in the society, You will have to send the fees to the High Court of Justice over there in Benin Republic within 3days from now so that our local agent can be able to apply our modalities with the High Court of
 Justice to issue the CLEARANCE FORM to you.

Send the fees of $200 through moneygram Money Transfer with the name of the account officer in High Court of Justice.

Receivers Name: Henry Paul
 Country: Benin Republic
City;  cotonou
 Text Question: How Long
 Text Answer: Immediately
Amount: $200 Usd.

As soon as you send the fees, you will have to get back to us with the following details which are Senders Name and Address, MTCN Number, Text Question and Answer Used and the amount Sent.

Then, when all this requirements are in place, the Certificate will be issued to you and then the compensation funds of $2.5Million Usd will be transferred into your bank account immediately.

 To avoid the wrath of the law on you and your entire family, we have been pleased to allow you secure the document from the High Court of Justice Benin Republic so that your name will be cleared off the fraudulent list in Benin Republic and we also argued with the Benin Republic Government about your compensations and that was the reason why you were compensated with the sum of 2.5million usd

 Thanks as I wait for your response

 Respectively
FBI Director Christopher wray

FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe
