Local Clubs
Ashwell Theatre Club
All the World's a Stage, and we have a part for everyone... We are always looking for new members. If you are interested in participating in any aspect of theatre you will find a diverse and interesting group of people to work with and we would love to see you!
If you'd like more information, you can email Connie Chambers or visit thier website
Baldock Town Youth Football Club
Baldock's youth football club providing soccer for participants from under 7 to adult. Probably one of the largest, cheapest and best run clubs in Hertfordshire
If you'd like more information, you can email the club or visit thier website
Ceroc (Modern Jazz) Classes meet at Plinston Hall , Broadway, Letchworth Garden City (1.9 miles)
We run these classes every Monday at Plinston Hall, 7.45 - 10.45 pm.  Beginners welcome, come on your own or with a partner, super night out
If you'd like more information, you can telephone  on 0800 197 6234, email the club or visit thier website
Dixieland CMC meet at Barton Hall (9 miles)
If you'd like more information, you can telephone Ron on 01582 585039 or email Ron
Footballers Wanted! meet at Astroturf Pitch, Hitchin Boys School , Grammar School Walk, Hitchin (4.2 miles)
If you like playing football but do not want to take it too seriously then this is for you!
Every Tuesday from 6pm to 7pm
If you'd like more information, you can email the club
Hitchin Honky Tonk meet at Hitchin Town F.C. , Bedford Road, Hitchin (4.2 miles)
Come along and enjoy the best Country music bands and music.
If you'd like more information, you can telephone Steve on 01763 241301 or Carol on 07808 340776, email Steve or visit thier website
Letchworth Cricket Club meet at Letchworth Cricket Club (0.3 miles)
Whether you are a young person looking to play, a parent or a more experienced player or coach wanting to join a new Club, find out all about our great Club - who to contact, our facilities and how to join. Get involved!
Letchworth is a friendly and ambitious club, running 5 sides each Saturday in the Saracen Herts league.
Our youth section ranges from 8 to 15 years of age, with participation in the Hertfordshire leagues from U9 to U15. We offer an early introduction to senior cricket for many of our young players in all of our 5 senior sides, which significantly aids their development as cricketers.
Coaching sessions run every Saturday morning. All our coaches are ECB qualified, supported through the summer by Dave Smith (Head Coach for North Herts District and County Selector)
If you'd like more information, you can email the club or visit thier website
Letchworth Rugby Football Club meet at Letchworth Rugby Football Club , Baldock Road, Letchworth Garden City (1.1 miles)
We play at Baldock Road, Behind the leisure centre. Training nights are Tuesdays and Thursdays at 7.30pm.
If you'd like more information, you can telephone the clubhouse on 01462 682554, email the clubhouse or visit thier website
Pony Express
Come along and enjoy the best Country music bands and music.
If you'd like more information, you can telephone  on 01438 225285
Richards Trampoline Club meet at North Herts Leisure Centre , Baldock Road, Letchworth Garden City (1.1 miles)
The Club aims to cater for everyone from recreational level up to National level, from 5 years old up to adults.  We provide classes to suit everyone, including beginners.  A proficiency award scheme with badges and certificates is used to assist learning, and support is given to students studying GCSE or A'level PE.  Trampolining is also a great way to improve fitness and to lose weight!
If you'd like more information, you can telephone Kyrstin on 01582 557754, email Kyrstin or visit thier website
Royston Karate Club meet at Market Hill Hall , Fish Hill, Royston (6.9 miles)
Karate training for begginers to black belts. From 8 years old to 80. Every monday and thusday evenings at Market Hill Hall, Fish Hill
If you'd like more information, you can email Tony
Stevenage Roller Skating Club meet at Shephall Leisure Centre , Barnwell, Stevenage (6.2 miles)
Meet every Monday at 18:00 in Forum Car Park and Saturdays at 18:00 at Shephall Leisure Centre welcoming skaters of all ages.
If you'd like more information, you can telephone  on 01438 721435 or email the club
Your Club Here?
We are currently looking for details on any local clubs, if you run a club or society in the area, please email us details at: admin@baldock.angle.uk.com for a free listing

