Opt out or contact us anytime
• Quotation of the day
“We are dead, but we have breath.”
— Zakia Abu Ajwa , 57, who cooks greens normally fed to donkeys for her grandchildren in Gaza, which the U.N. says is near collapse.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
• The Times, in other words
Here’s an image of today’s front page , and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles .
Back Story
The Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show opens in New York today, an event that bills itself as the world’s greatest dog show. The competition has cultivated a strong following since it opened in 1877 at the venue that later became known as Madison Square Garden .
So where did the “Westminster” come from?
Photo
The dogs had their day at the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show in 2016. Credit Philip Montgomery for The New York Times
In the 1870s, a group of men met regularly at the Westminster Hotel near Union Square. They had an extraordinary affinity for the bar, as well as for dogs, and they decided to put on a dog show.
“ The Dog Show, 125 Years of Westminster ,” by William Stifel, details what happened next.
They couldn’t agree on the name for their new club. But finally someone suggested that they name it after their favorite bar. The idea was unanimously selected, we imagine, with the hoisting of a dozen drinking arms.
The show is the second-oldest continuously run sporting event in America, after the Kentucky Derby.
The first show had over 1,200 entries, and the judging took several days. (Here’s our 1877 report on the preparations .)
Last year, the show had close to 3,000 dogs from all 50 states. Judges hold themselves to two days.
Here’s our collection of stories on the show . We’ll have live coverage on Tuesday.
Claudio E. Cabrera contributed reporting.
_____
Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning . Browse past briefings here .
Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. Check out our full range of free newsletters here .
What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com .
Follow Chris Stanford on Twitter: @stanfordc .

