Pin It
Following the 1-0 defeat to Newcastle, Manchester United manager, Jose Mourinho is of the opinion that the gods of soccer were clearly against the Red Devils.
He also has revealed why he had to substitute talisman, Paul Pogba for the second time in three matches, after a below-par display.
Last weekend, the United boss dropped the Frenchman for the home game against Huddersfield, but he was restored to the starting line-up by Mourinho for the trip to St. James Park.
He failed to see out the 90 minutes and after the clash Mourinho was asked if there was an injury.
“No, no problem. I wanted a better way to come out in the first phase against a team that was defending in a very compact block.
“I was trying that with the simplicity of Michael Carrick because he tries to make everything simple and bring Alexis in an area close to Lukaku where he can be like a second striker.
“I was unlucky because they scored a goal in the seconds after, and then I’m going to face a different Newcastle where in that moment the only thing they think is defend,” Mourinho said.
Matt Ritchie’s 65th-minute goal consigned the Red Devils to their fifth league defeat of the season.
Mourinho’s side, who had 13 shots – six on target, now trail league leaders Manchester City by 16 points.
“The gods of football were clearly in their side,” said the Portuguese. “It wasn’t going to happen for us today.”
Ritchie scored the only goal of the game when he collected a Dwight Gayle flick to shoot past David de Gea after Florian Lejeune had knocked down Jonjo Shelvey’s free-kick.
Defeat extended Mourinho’s winless run in the Premier League at St James’ Park to seven matches.
The former Chelsea boss said Newcastle had “played like animals” to win at home in the league for the first time since October.
“My verdict is we could’ve been here for 10 hours and not scored a goal,” he said.
“They got from us a defensive mistake, and from a lateral free-kick they scored. They must have an amazing feeling after giving absolutely everything.
“They fought for their points and when they went in front, they gave their lives to keep a clean sheet. I think it’s a beautiful way to win a football match.”
Anthony Martial, Alexis Sanchez and Jesse Lingard all missed chances for the visitors, with Newcastle’s debutant goalkeeper Martin Dubravka – a January loan signing – in fine form.
Share this:

