ShareClose Comments
Getty Images
Antonio Conte is under increasing pressure at Stamford Bridge and the Blues are now in danger of missing out on Champions League qualification
It appears to be case of when Antonio Conte leaves Chelsea, rather than if.
The Italian is cutting an increasingly frustrated figure in press conferences and while the 48-year-old insists he isn't worried about his job, it seems very unlikely that he'll be taking charge of the Blues next season and serious doubts remain over his chances of seeing through the current campaign, too.
While Chelsea are just 4/11 (1.36) to win Monday's clash with West Brom with dabblebet, the same firm are now 10/11 (1.91) that the reigning Premier League champions miss out on top four place - just as they did in 2015-16 after sacking Jose Mourinho.
Tottenham's 1-0 win over Arsenal propelled Spurs into fourth place on Saturday, two points ahead of Conte's side. Mauricio Pochettino's men are now 1/3 (from 4/6) for a top four finish with both Manchester United and Liverpool available at 1/12 (1.08).
Given Manchester City are already out of sight in the title race and Arsenal are so far back that they're 10/1 (11.0) in this market, it certainly looks to be Chelsea that are going to be the other team to miss out.
It's easy to see that all is not well at the club and history tells us that it's unlikely that Conte sees out the season, given how former managers have fared when underperforming, even off the back of a title win the previous year.
Tottenham only have Manchester City at Wembley and a trip to Stamford Bridge left in terms of matches against the top six this season, with seven of their remaining 11 league games are against teams currently 11th or below in the table.
Chelsea on the other hand, still have a home game against Liverpool and back-to-back trips to both Manchester clubs to come, plus that potentially pivotal showdown with Spurs on 1 April. Add to that a trip to Turf Moor and their run-in looks exceptionally tricky compared to that faced by their London rivals.
Both sides are still involved in the FA Cup and Champions League, which can have a significant impact on league form as the end of the season approaches.
However, given the turmoil Chelsea are in, their recent dismal performances plus their very tricky upcoming games, the prospect of missing out on a seat at Europe's top table could force the Blues into a change of manager sooner rather than later.

