Share on Reddit
AS I’M writing this, it’s 28C outside but on TV, white powder is falling in PyeongChang and snowboarders are flying through the air in the slopestyle competition, wowing viewers with their gravity-defying triple backflips.
The Winter Olympics take centre stage on TV over the next two weeks and there’s a grace in winter sports that you just can’t find elsewhere. The triumphs, the heartbreaks, the intake of breath right before someone lands that perfect jump or falls on their butt — it’s exhilarating.
But it’s not the only game in town. Check out what else is on TV this week (or make a note of what to catch up on when the Winter Olympics is over).
HERE AND NOW
(Showcase on Foxtel — Tuesday, February 13, 8.30pm)
The new HBO drama from creator Alan Ball (Six Feet Under, True Blood) is a return to knotty family dynamics, with a surprising dash of the supernatural thrown in. Here And Now is anchored by Holly Hunter and Tim Robbins as the heads of the Bayer-Boatwright clan with their three adopted, multiracial kids and one biological teenager.
The series is very conscious of the political moment of 2018, looking to examine issues of racial injustice and social division and it’s not always subtle about it. While it has signature Ball characters — flawed, depressed and morose — it doesn’t have the nuance of Six Feet Under, not yet anyway. However, Hunter, in her first TV series role since 2013’s Top Of The Lake, and her irrepressible presence alone makes it worth sampling.
I’d watch Holly Hunter chop onions. Picture: HBO Source: Supplied
EVERYTHING SUCKS!
(Netflix — from Friday, 7pm AEDT)
Netflix is hoping Everything Sucks will do for the ’90s what Stranger Things did for the ’80s. The nostalgic series is set in a small town American high school and centres on two groups on the fringe of the social strata — the theatre kids and the AV Club. But more than a collection of ’90s references — Tori Amos (!), phat and discmans — the series is the thoughtful story of 15-year-old Kate’s (Peyton Kennedy) discovery of her sexuality and coming out.
While it’s much looser and doesn’t have the propulsive action of Stranger Things (or its supernatural elements), the characters are compelling enough to keep you coming back for more — and to have you digging around for your old Saved By The Bell and My So-Called Life VHS tapes.
The ’90s — the decade style forgot. Picture: Netflix Source: Supplied
FIGURE SKATING
(Seven — Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday)
If you weren’t already enthralled by the athleticism, creativity and sparkly costumes of figure skating, then surely you were converted to the cause by I, Tonya? One of the most popular sports of the Winter Olympics, the figure skating competition will culminate with the women’s singles free skating program at the end of the second week but there will be some captivating performances in the lead-up.
The team events will wrap up on Monday, moving into the individual and pair events. Keep an eye out for 20-year-old Harley Windsor, Australia’s first indigenous Winter Olympian who will be skating in the pair competition with partner Ekaterina Alexandrovskaya — they won the 2017 Junior World Figure Skating Championships in Taipei.
Harley Windsor and Ekaterina Alexandrovskaya at the ISU Four Continents figure skating championships in Taipei this year. Picture: AFP/Anthony Wallace Source: AFP
HOMELAND S7
(SBS — Friday, February 16, 8.30pm)
Homeland never quite recovered those fans who abandoned the gripping political series after it went off the rails somewhere near the end of its second season, even after it returned to form with an excellent fourth season. It’s a shame because now in its seventh year, the series remains a suspenseful thrill-ride and it’s also as relevant as it’s ever been.
After spending two seasons on foreign soil, first in Pakistan and then in Germany, Carrie Mathison (the still wonderful Claire Danes), foiled an assassination plot against president-elect Elizabeth Keane (Elizabeth Marvel) last year. This season is dealing with the fallout — in a divided country with a president waging war against enemies perceived and real, prosecuting an agenda against the intelligence community and ignoring the rule of law. Sound familiar?
Carrie is back on the case. Picture: Showtime/Antony Platt Source: Supplied
BLUE PLANET II
(Nine — Saturday, February 17, 7pm)
David Attenborough’s 16-years-in-the-making sequel to his landmark Blue Planet series hits screens this week, and you need to find your friend with the best and biggest TV to really appreciate the majesty of it.
Blue Planet II was the highest rating show in the UK in 2017 and it’s easy to see why. Produced over four years and across 39 countries it took over 6000 hours of diving and filming to bring to life the beauty and fragility of our oceans. In seven unforgettable episodes, you’ll gape at ethereal glowing planktons, marvel at all manners of creatures that live in or near the water and be appalled at how people are destroying this incredible ecosystem. This is event TV.
See the world beneath the waves, with such stars as this green turtle. Source: Supplied
STAR TREK: DISCOVERY
(Netflix — from Monday, February 11, 7pm AEDT)
The first Star Trek series in 12 years debuted in September and it has been one excellent episode after another of brilliant storytelling and multifaceted characters with complex motivations, led by the charismatic Sonequa Martin-Green as Michael Burnham. In other words: What a bloody great show.
The first season wraps up this week with a finale that has followed five instalments of incredible and earned twists which always leaves your jaw somewhere on the ground for hours after the credits roll. If you haven’t made Star Trek: Discovery a part of your watchlist, do it now and you can binge the whole season in one go.
Sonequa Martin-Green as Michael Burnham is the hero we need. Picture: CBS/Jan Thijs Source: Supplied
THIS IS US
(Ten — Wednesday, February 14, 8.30pm)
The weepy drama has been a surprising hit in the US and it returns in Australia for its second season this week. The local run is still about 14 episodes away from answering the big question set up last year — how does patriarch Jack die — which was just revealed in the States this month.
Following two generations of the Pearson family, during the present day and in flashbacks, This Is Us is a big-hearted series perfect for those who prefer their television a little more sentimental and love nothing more than the catharsis of a good cry. It’s not for everybody but it certainly has its legion of fans. Tune in if you were fans of shows like Grey’s Anatomy or Parenthood.
How does Jack die? Picture: NBC/Ron Batzdorff Source: Supplied
Share your TV and movies obsessions with @wenleima on Twitter.
FOLLOW US

