Who Were the Singers at the Opening Ceremony of the Winter Olympics?
By MAIRA GARCIA
Continue reading the main story
Photo
Four South Korean pop stars took center stage Friday during the opening ceremony at Pyeongchang Olympic Stadium. Credit Hilary Swift for The New York Times
While Americans were able to catch a few glimpses early in the day, the full spectacle of the opening ceremony of the Winter Olympics came into view Friday night.
The theme of the ceremony was “Peace in Motion,” which was highlighted by musical performances from some notable South Korean artists.
But who are they, and what’s worth knowing about them? Here’s a look at the performers.
The Children’s Choir
The children’s choir, known as the Rainbow Chorus, performed “Aegukga,” the national anthem of South Korea. The choir is sponsored by the South Korean government , and it was created to educate the public about multiculturalism and to help integrate immigrants and multicultural families.
I love the fact that the children's choir singing Korea's national anthem reflect the range of people who make up the Korean community today. #PyeongChang2018 #OpeningCeremony pic.twitter.com/0Q3ZVgoJQH
—         Korean Koala (@KrnKoala) Feb. 10, 2018
The choir performs at official events and competitions. Here are the singers performing in 2015.
제 6회 전국 다문화 어린이 합창대회 레인보우합창단의 아리랑 ! Video by 한국다문화센터
‘Imagine’
Photo
From left, Ha Hyun-woo, Lee Eun-mi, Jeon In-kwon and Ahn Ji-young performing “Imagine.” Credit Chang W. Lee/The New York Times
John Lennon’s “Imagine” was performed by Jeon In-kwon, Lee Eun-mi, Ha Hyun-woo and Ahn Ji-young, who are all considered stars in South Korea and who represented several generations of Korean pop music.
Newsletter Sign Up
Continue reading the main story
2018 Olympics Newsletter
For 19 days, our Sports newsletter will be all things Olympics. You’ll get the best from Pyeongchang: The events to watch, the stories to read and more.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred. Please try again later.
You are already subscribed to this email.

