Additional scholarships:
Derbyshire Institute of Sport
The Derbyshire Institute of Sport supports athletes from Derbyshire who have demonstrated their potential to become World Class. When an athlete joins the DIS, they become part of a performance family which works together for their benefit. Each individual athlete has a bespoke plan which supports their journey to become World Class. The range of services on offer include; performance advice, psychology, strength and conditioning, physiotherapy and nutrition from practitioners with extensive experience at World Class level. The services are directly aligned to National Governing Body programmes which ensures that athletes transition smoothly to the next level. The DIS has a strong partnership with the University of Derby and enjoys dedicated access to the performance suite at the Sports Centre. In certain circumstances we are also able to provide additional support in terms of scholarships.‌
‌
What our scholars say
"My first year as a scholar for Team Derby has been amazing in terms of transforming myself into a new level of student-athlete. The scholarship has given the opportunity to study away from home and put me in contact with top quality facilities and equipment as well as unbeatable support and guidance from coaches, physiotherapist and mentors. I cannot wait for what is in-store for this season as I know it will be a successful one!”
George Calvey, Basketball Scholar
"Being a part of the scholarship programme has given me a lot of opportunity to perform at my highest capability. Having a tailored programme to my own ability, health and specific sport has enabled me to be at my strongest. I have also obtained my biggest achievements in my career, becoming the British National Champion.” 
Philippa Taylor, Archery Scholar
"My time here at Derby has been special. My scholarship allowed me to affordably attend school abroad, along with maximizing my craft with the sports scholar workout facility, providing me with every type of equipment to get better and providing physiotherapy which allowed me to take care of my body like never before.”
Kyren Watts, American Football Scholar and International Student 
How to apply
Download and complete a Team Derby  Sports Scholarship Application Form and return it together with your sporting reference by email to  sportsscholars@derby.ac.uk . We cannot process your application without a supporting reference preferably on headed paper
You are advised to apply as soon as possible and only in exceptional circumstances will late applications be considered by the panel
All applications will be considered by the Team Derby Awards Panel and any offers made will be at the panel’s discretion 
Applications will be prioritised and ranked according to merit
The submission of an application, or prior inclusion in the programme, does not guarantee the offer of an award
A sport scholarship is only valid for one academic year. Scholars must reapply on time if they wish to continue to receive support
We do accept enquiries for applicants considering studying at the University of Derby in future years.
Timeline
January 31 2018 - Application process opens for September starters. Please apply as soon as possible, an email will be sent to confirm the application has been received
July 31 2018 - UG and PG deadline for all scholarship applications
1 August to 31 August 2018 - Clearing scholarship applications

