In Olympic Corner of Asia, Web of Relationships Is Complex
By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Continue reading the main story
When an NBC Olympics analyst irritated South Koreans by crediting Japan for helping the country step toward the future, he waded into an intricate web of friendship, unease and outright enmity among Northeast Asia's four nations — the two Koreas, Japan and China — and the United States.
The political relationships in this patch of Asia are complex and fraught with the weight of history — and the blood of hundreds of thousands. That history defines this part of the world.
And given that these Pyeongchang Games are followed by Summer 2020 in Japan and Winter 2022 in China, they define the Olympics, too, for the next four years.
We asked The Associated Press' experts — the people who cover these countries day after day — to prepare a background briefing of the percolating politics in this region where the Olympics are unfolding.
Advertisement
___
NORTH KOREA AND SOUTH KOREA
South Korea has been threatened, mined, shelled, attacked with commandos and submarines and generally trolled by North Korean propaganda mavens almost continuously since the Korean Peninsula was forcibly divided at the end of World War II into a Soviet-backed North and U.S.-backed South. To say the relationship is complicated is an understatement.
Continue reading the main story
Throughout this drama, South Koreans have learned to live with Pyongyang and, with some exceptions — war and naval skirmishes, for example — taken it in stride. This past year, however, has seen an extraordinary standoff between a belligerent Kim Jong Un testing nukes and missiles in the North and Donald Trump threatening "fire and fury" in Washington, with Seoul in the middle.
Now, during these Olympic Games, Kim Jong Un's sister flew south with an invitation to talk. What happens next may determine if skepticism is replaced by that strangest of political emotions in the southern part of the peninsula — hope.
— By Foster Klug, AP bureau chief for South Korea
___
NORTH KOREA AND THE UNITED STATES
In a very real way, North Korea owes its existence to the United States, which in an effort to keep the Soviet Union from putting all of the Korean Peninsula under its sphere of influence after Japan's surrender in 1945 came up with the idea of dividing North and South along the 38th parallel. Of course, it wasn't long before North Korea's founder, Kim Il Sung, sent his troops across that line, touching off the 1950-53 Korean War.
The U.S. and North Korea have technically been at war ever since.
To many Americans, that might come as a surprise. The bloody conflict itself is sometimes called the "Forgotten War" and the fact that a peace treaty has yet to be signed is hardly the focus of U.S. public concern. But in North Korea, the war is both a trauma that older people vividly recall and a political rallying tool second only to the Kim regime's unrelenting vilification of the Japanese, their former colonial rulers.
The standoff hasn't cooled despite the end of the Cold War and the collapse of the Soviet Union and Pyongyang's former socialist comrades. But the nature of the confrontation has changed now that Kim Jong Un, Kim Il Sung's grandson, has developed nuclear weapons and missiles capable of attacking the United States.
— By Eric Talmadge, AP bureau chief for North Korea
___
JAPAN AND THE KOREAS
In a region where just about every relationship is fraught, this one still stands out.
Despite the fact that a lot of Japanese culture made its way to the islands from China via the Korean Peninsula, Japan has a long history of treating Korea as if it were either somehow inferior or destined to be a Japanese colony — which it actually was from 1910-45. For its samurai-era invasions and those decades of colonialism, the Japanese are to this day the favorite villain in North Korean movies. Their embassy in Seoul is subjected to near daily protests, mostly over Tokyo's sexual exploitation of Korean women during World War II.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
The NBC gaffe hit such a sore nerve not because it was completely wrong — the colonial years did bring improvements, particularly in infrastructure — but because it completely missed the point. Whatever collateral good came out of it, the decades of Japanese oppression were brutal and explicitly designed to subjugate the Korean nation.
That said, it's a small neighborhood.
Today, Japan and South Korea have crucial economic ties and share tremendous cultural similarities. The cultural chauvinism hasn't gone away, but mainstream Japanese attitudes toward Koreans have softened. South Korean youth culture — its K-pop and television dramas — are big hits with Japanese women. The resentment and simmering animosity among South Koreans toward the Japanese still runs much deeper, but with time is losing some of its edge.
North Korea, however, is a different story. Part of it is the history, and part of it is the politics of dealing with an openly hostile, totalitarian regime. But hatred and mutual distrust remain the rule.
— By Eric Talmadge, AP bureau chief for North Korea
___
CHINA AND NORTH KOREA
China has a complex relationship with the two Koreas but a clear overriding goal of maintaining stability and avoiding conflict on its northeastern border. China fought on the North's behalf during the 1950-53 Korean War and has long been its chief diplomatic ally and top trading partner.
Yet relations have soured since the rise to power of North Korea's young leader Kim Jong Un, who has defied Beijing's calls to end his country's nuclear weapons program. China in response has signed on to increasingly harsh United Nations sanctions targeting North Korea's foreign trade.
Newsletter Sign Up
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred. Please try again later.
You are already subscribed to this email.

