Swimsuit Issue
Meet the First Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue of the #MeToo Era
The team behind a media institution sets out to make a magazine where models were as much participants as objects.
by
Sailor Brinkley Cook models for the Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue’s “In Her Own Words.”
By Taylor Ballantyne/SPORTS ILLUSTRATED.
On the short list of American media institutions invented to take commercial advantage of the male gaze, the Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue surely ranks in the top-three, mostly-safe-for-work division. One could be forgiven, then, for thinking that the staff of the issue were reconsidering their efforts last fall as #MeToo trended, stories about sexual harassment consumed news cycles, and audiences thought more deeply about the ways their media and entertainment were made—and who was making them. It turns out the issue’s staff had already been on their way to rethinking all of it. Editor MJ Day and her core team, comprised of all women, had decided as early as last spring to try in 2018 to make a magazine where models were as much participants as objects.
“I’m thrilled that this movement is going on because I feel like it’s going to change things for the better,” Day said last week at the magazine’s offices in Lower Manhattan, where parent company Time Inc. was in the midst of preparing for its new owner, Meredith Corp. Blonde and with the tan of someone whose professional life takes them to the Caribbean during the winter, Day has edited the issue for four years—a full-time job—and been an employee of Sports Illustrated for 20. She runs the Swimsuit Issue like a den mother, paying attention to the emotions and comfort level of models and employees. “This is a safe space,” she said at one point. She loves to post selfies with the models she works with and last year uploaded a photograph of herself in a bikini in the name of body positivity.
For Day, the 2018 issue, which arrives on newsstands next week, will be the culmination of a shift in her thinking that’s happened over her time at Sports Illustrated, that the images could be a place where different standards of beauty could be celebrated. Traveling and shooting on location put her in situations where she was talking about bodies and the idea of beauty with people from vastly different cultural backgrounds.
“Everybody had a different person that they related to or thought was the most exciting,” she said. “Those people were dark, light, big, small, tall, thin—it was not one type of person. I always carried that with me . . . Why are we only saying to ourselves that there’s just one type of person that’s worthy of being celebrated? It’s bullshit, and we all know it, and we all live it, yet it’s continued to be propagated in the media.”
This year, the issue will include more participation from athletes, written contributions from models, more donations and causes, and empowerment—one model’s T-shirt reads “Own It.” (Last year’s issue portended a change when it closed with an image of a model in a tank top that read “A WOMAN DOESN’T HAVE TO BE MODEST TO BE RESPECTED.”) In a first in its 54-year history, the 2018 Swimsuit Issue will also feature a nude spread shot by a female photographer, Taylor Ballantyne, and an all-women crew. Called “In Her Own Words,” Day sees it as an opportunity to continue with an idea she’s been interested in for a while: how can she use the images that you’ve come to expect from S.I. to change attitudes about women?
Nina Agdal poses for Sports Illustrated’s 2017 Swimsuit Issue.
By Ruven Afanador/courtesy of Sports Illustrated.
To be sure, this year’s Swimsuit Issue will still have the swimsuits and sandy beaches its readers have come to expect. The cover was shot in the Caribbean, like approximately 20 of the ones that preceded it. “These are sexy photos,” Day said. “At the end of the day, we’re always going to be sexy, no matter what is happening. We’re Sports Illustrated Swimsuit. The ideal is to create something artful, to create a beautiful image that both the subject and the team is proud of and collaborates on together.”
Still, Day told Vanity Fair that she sees connections between the #MeToo movement and her own work. “It’s about allowing women to exist in the world without being harassed or judged regardless of how they like to present themselves,” she said. “That’s an underlying thread that exists throughout the Swimsuit Issue. You have Harvard graduates, you have billion-dollar moguls, you have philanthropists, you have teachers, you have mothers—you have a full range of women represented in the alumnus of this magazine, and not one of them failed because they wore a bikini.”
When asked about the recent allegations of harassment in the entertainment industry, Day said she has been committed to fostering a supportive culture on shoots. The comfort of a model is the key to a shot remaining tasteful, she said. When looking for photographers, she avoids people who have reputations. “We have fun and it’s a great time, but there’s a level of professionalism I demand from people that I work with.”
Last spring, Ballantyne came to Day with the idea of a nude shoot where models would choose words to write on their bodies, in an attempt to give the models a voice in a silent medium. Day decided it would be a strong centerpiece of this issue. She said the models chose “powerful words, positive words that represent them and their beliefs and their passions and their messaging.” They chose a variety of models with varying ages, body types, and levels of experience: Paulina Porizkova, who was on the issue’s cover in 1984, returned for the spread, but also included is “rookie” Sailor Brinkley Cook, the daughter of swimsuit veteran Christie Brinkley.
Robyn Lawley and Paulina Porizkova participate in Sports Illustrated’s “In Her Own Words” shoot.
By Taylor Ballantyne/SPORTS ILLUSTRATED.
Day actually left the set of the shoot. “One part was to allow the model to be her own creative director,” she said. “I worried that if I were on set, they would start to model for me, and do what I wanted to see, rather than what they wanted to be represented as.” In addition, two of the models for the shoot also carried out roles behind the scenes. Brinkley Cook is a full-time photography student, and so she was offered the opportunity to work on the crew. Robyn Lawley, a returning model whom Day called a “renaissance woman,” is featured in the shoot, but she also worked as the director of photography for a behind-the-scenes video that will air on Sports Illustrated TV. (Day said that looking for longevity in a model is one of her primary concerns when she is casting: “We don’t want to have one-and-dones, we want people to become Kathy Ireland. We want them to win life.”)
“No one ever gives models a real opportunity to be who they are,” Day said of the issue’s tentpole shoot. “You’re always an actor, you’re always a part of the photograph, you’re always performing for something: for the brand, the photographer, the spirit of the photograph, and you’re never really your most authentic self.”
Get Vanity Fair’s Cocktail Hour
Our essential brief on culture, the news, and more. And it's on the house.
E-mail Address
Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy .
Share

