Jason Mastrodonato Sunday, February 11, 2018
Credit: AP photo
comments
The first part of the story is well-known in New England.
It’s about last summer, when most teams were seeing sky-high home run numbers that brought back memories of corked bats and artificially inflated biceps, but the Red Sox were on their way to ranking last in the American League.
They finished the season with an unusually low .736 OPS. Not since 1976 had the Red Sox, they of hitter-friendly Fenway Park, finished with an OPS that poor and still posted a winning record. And it wasn’t just a winning record — they were 93-69, good enough to win the American League East.
The second part of the story is often forgotten, though: The 2017 Red Sox sure could pitch.
The starting rotation took a giant leap forward with a 4.06 ERA, the franchise’s third-best mark since 2000. The 3.73 overall ERA was its best since 1992, when Roger Clemens won 18 games with a 2.41 ERA on a last-place team.
This winter, the Sox haven’t signed or traded for a single pitcher expected to make the roster out of spring training. They’re hoping for more of the same from an identical group in 2018 despite near complete turnover in the coaching staff following the firing of manager John Farrell.
The Sox retained just one big league coach: Dana LeVangie, promoted by Alex Cora from bullpen coach and catching instructor last year to pitching coach.
That news inspired Pedro Martinez. The special assistant in the front office says he intends to spend even more time with the players during spring training.
“I’ll probably get busier this year given the fact that we have a brand new manager and we have a brand new pitching coach,” Martinez said last month at Red Sox’ Winter Weekend. “It’s something I never thought I would be so involved with, but I’m going to have to because not only is Dana an inexperienced pitching coach, but he’s also my friend. And I don’t want to let him struggle.
“If I have to sacrifice a little bit more of my time to actually make sure that he’s OK and that everything is going right for him, and that the guys can really trust what he’s doing, I’m going to do that.”
LeVangie has been with the Sox for 27 years, since he was a 14th-round draft pick in 1991 out of American International College in Springfield. He took over as bullpen coach in 2013, when the Sox lowered their ERA almost a full run on their way to a World Series title.
“I was excited,” said Martinez about LeVangie replacing Carl Willis, who left to be Cleveland’s pitching coach. “Believe it or not, Dana has a lot more experience when it comes to recognizing what pitchers do. He’s been with those guys now long enough where he has developed a great relationship. I actually trust him to do well, and I trust the players to trust him because he’s been working with them closer probably than anybody.”
Bullpen coaches often work most closest with the relievers, since they spend so much time with them during the game, but LeVangie has an eye for mechanics with every pitcher. He can often be found studying video outside of game hours.
It was LeVangie who recommended Drew Pomeranz move his starting point to the other side of the pitching rubber, a change that helped Pomeranz go from a 4.97 ERA in his first eight starts to a 2.85 in his final 24.
“I had a very good year after that point,” Pomeranz said. “It was kind of those first few starts of like, ‘What am I doing here? What am I doing wrong?’ And trying to polish everything out. Dana made some really good suggestions to me. We all love Dana and I think he’s going to be a great pitching coach for us.”
When Joe Kelly started over-analyzing his own mechanics, something he says he’s prone to do, LeVangie was the one to help Kelly relax and simplify things in a way that made sense to him.
“He’s helped me so much,” Kelly said. “I don’t know what I’m doing wrong sometimes, but he was a scout and a bullpen coach. And I think he deserves what he got as pitching coach. He’s worked really hard and I think it’ll be helpful for every person on our staff.”
Chris Sale, who also worked with renowned pitching coach Don Cooper while with the Chicago White Sox, considers LeVangie “about as good as they get when it comes to the knowledge of pitching.” Rick Porcello and Craig Kimbrel have also showed their public support.
Without any additions on the offensive side, the Red Sox are hoping to maximize their potential on the mound. LeVangie holds the key.
At the very least, he’ll be prepared.
“A couple of days after he got the pitching coach job in November,” Porcello said, “he called me and we talked for an hour on things he had mapped out for me coming into the season that I need to work on and get better with. As a player, to see your pitching coach spend that much time, at that time of year, and have something prepared for you, it gives me chills just thinking about it because that’s how much he cares and that’s how much he works.”
Related Articles

