Transfer news: Eriksen to Man Utd claim, Arsenal and Liverpool exclusive, Chelsea disaster
STARSPORT brings you the latest transfer news as Premier League clubs prepare for their summer business.
/
Published 12th February 2018
Manchester United should sign Tottenham playmaker Christian Eriksen in order to win the Premier League, claims Graeme Souness.
"It is paramount for Mourinho that he gets his midfield right," Souness wrote in the Sunday Times.
"United need a better mix there to keep the ball better, make them better to watch and more threatening, with better quality into their strikers.
"They need a craftsman such as Christian Eriksen at Tottenham.
"Romelu Lukaku has faced some criticism, but he's not getting chances on his plate. He could do with an Eriksen-type doing that for him. United are crying out for a clever passer.
"Juan Mata can do it, but he can't get around the pitch like Eriksen does or the way that Mourinho wants his players to."
GETTY
Manchester United told to sign Tottenham playmaker Christian Eriksen
GETTY
Schalke midfielder Max Meyer wanted by Arsenal and Liverpool
Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger has made Schalke midfielder Max Meyer as a top target for the summer window, Starsport understands.
The 22-year-old is out of contract at the end of the season.
But the Gunners are set to face stiff competition for his signature from the likes of Liverpool, Bayern Munich and Milan also interested.
Schalke are keen to tie Germany international down to a new deal but it is understood Wenger is already working hard on persuading Meyer to join the north London club.
GETTY
Chelsea manager Antonio Conte says he is a disaster at transfers
Next Chelsea manager odds
 
THE pressure is mounting on Chelsea boss Antonio Conte - but who are the favourites to replace him when he leaves Stamford Bridge?
1 / 12
GETTY
Roberto Mancini - 20/1
Chelsea manager Antonio Conte says he is “a disaster” when it comes to convincing the club to signing new players.
Asked if he thought his squad could be improved, he said: "I don't know. Usually in my experience, I reached the best results possible with the players I have to work with.
"I think that I'm the type of coach who if I have a player who is 6/10, I bring him to an 8/10. If I have a player who is 8/10, I take him to 10/10. I'm this type of coach.
“But I think I'm a bit of a disaster to convince the club to buy players. I think in this aspect I can improve a lot.
“I have to speak more with the managers who are very, very good at persuading their clubs to spend money to buy top players."
Related articles

