Man City captain Vincent Kompany will lift Premier League if Pep Guardiola's side are crowned champions
Manchester City are on course to win their third Premier League crown this season
 Share
Click to playTap to play
The video will start in 8Cancel
Play now
Get Manchester City FC updates directly to your inbox
+ Subscribe
Thank you for subscribing!
Could not subscribe, try again laterInvalid Email
Vincent Kompany will be given the honour of lifting the Premier League title for Manchester City - despite being reduced to a bit part role this season.
The Belgian international has endured another injury-wrecked campaign so far - starting just 10 times in the league.
Despite recovering from his latest calf injury, he faces a battle to hold down a regular place in Pep Guardiola's team following the club record £57m signing of Aymeric Laporte.
With John Stones and Nicolas Otamendi also competing to be part of Guardiola’s first choice central defence, Kompany faces the biggest test of his City career.
Fernandinho and David Silva have worn the captain's armband for large parts of the season during Kompany's absence - but as club captain, he will still lift what will be his third league title at the Etihad.
Read More
City moved 16 points clear at the top of the table with the 5-1 win against Leicester on Saturday night, with second-placed Manchester United not playing until Sunday.
But Guardiola is adamant his team cannot allow complacency to set in.
“We have to wait for Vincent to lift the titles,” he said. “If Vincent doesn’t lift the titles, we will have good memories for ourselves.
“We cannot deny we have enjoyed these six, seven months a lot.
“But to be admired, to be loved, to get credit for what we have done, you have to lift the titles.”
Kompany has played a bit part role this season
Guardiola added: “I cannot deny the distance to the next team. Today it is 16 points, tomorrow it could be 13.
“There is still a lot to play for, but I don’t know what will happen.
“But yes, to have 72 points in February, it’s a lot.
“It is what it is, but we are playing in the right way.
“If we are able to keep it up all of the season, I don’t know what will happen, but for the opponents it will be tough.”
Like us on Facebook

