Shaun White won the men’s halfpipe gold medal. Read our coverage here .
Geisenberger Repeats in Luge
Natalie Geisenberger won her second straight Olympic gold medal in luge, leading a 1-2-4 performance for Germany. Geisenberger took the lead on the first of four runs and never relinquished it.
American Drought Continues in Cross Country
Stina Nilsson of Sweden won the women’s cross country sprint race. An American, Jessica Diggins, made the six-woman final, but missed out on a medal, finishing sixth.
No American has won a cross country medal since Bill Koch took home a silver in 1976. The sprint race was in the classic skiing style, which Americans have long struggled with.
Image
Shani Davis of the United States won silver in the men’s 1500m in both Vancouver and Turin. But today he finished 19th.CreditJames Hill for The New York Times
Dutch Speediest Again
The Dutch dominance of speed skating continued with a 1-2 finish in the men’s 1,500 meters. Kjeld Nuis won gold and Patrick Roest silver for the powerful Dutch team. The bronze went to a South Korean, Kim Min Seok.
Here’s What You Missed
Arianna Fontana of Italy won the 500-meter short track race by half a skate length over the home favorite, Minjeong Choi. But Choi wound up losing out on the silver as well after being penalized for interference. Yara Van Kerkhof of the Netherlands was promoted to silver, and Kim Boutin of Canada to bronze. Maame Biney, the American whose bubbly interview at the opening ceremony captivated the U.S. audience, was eliminated in a quarterfinal.
Canada won the mixed doubles curling competition, 10-3, over Switzerland. Canada will be among the favorites in the men’s and women’s events as well.
Shaun White, the 2006 and 2010 halfpipe winner but a disappointing fourth four years ago, scored a 98.50 for the best qualifying run. Full coverage is here .
Image
Marcel Hirscher of Austria celebrating after his slalom run.CreditDoug Mills/The New York Times
Marcel Hirscher of Austria won the Alpine combined event. Hirscher, who had won six world championships without an Olympic gold, skied an excellent 12th in the downhill portion, not his best event. He then scorched the slalom, recording the best time.
Image
The American Chloe Kim on her way to winning the women's halfpipe.CreditChang W. Lee/The New York Times
Chloe Kim, the 17-year-old American snowboarding phenom, won the women’s halfpipe. She dazzled from the start with a score of 93.75 on her first run, and no one came close to beating that mark. On her third and final run, with the gold medal clinched, she executed a victory lap that scored 98.25. The silver went to Liu Jiayu of China, with 89.75, and Arielle Gold of the United States had a strong third run, scoring 85.75. Complete coverage here .
Kei Saito, a short-track speedskater from Japan, came up with the first drug positive of the Games when an out-of-competition test detected acetazolamide, a masking agent. Saito will be provisionally suspended from competition and must leave the Olympic Village. Saito had not yet competed at the Games.
Victor Mather is a general assignment sports reporter and editor.  
Sign Up for the Pyeongchang Olympics Newsletter
Starting on Feb. 8, our Sports newsletter will be all things Olympics.
Please verify you’re not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
* Required field
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times products and services.
* Required field

