Health News
KEPT HER COOL
South Korean figure skater Yura Min suffers wardrobe malfunction as her red-hot costume SLIPS OFF exposing her to Winter Olympics crowd
Yura Min's skimpy red dress slipped just seconds into her short dance routine threatening to reveal just a little too much to the millions watching around the world
By Jon Lockett
13th February 2018, 3:00 pm
Updated: 15th February 2018, 4:11 pm
ICE cool skater Yura Min didn't let a nightmare wardrobe malfunction ruin her Olympic debut today.
The South Korean star's skimpy red dress slipped just seconds into her short dance routine threatening to reveal just a little too much to the millions watching around the world.
EPA
Yura's red dress slipped just seconds into her short dance routine
AFP
However, the South Korean kept her cool and continued with her routine
As she was spun around by partner Alexander Gamelin, she had to keep adjusting her red top to prevent showing off more than her medal ambitions.
At one point the top slipped just a little too far but instead of going into a flap Yura just carried on with her well-rehearsed routine.
Yura, who was competing in the figure skating team event, was praised by commentators for recovering from the sartorial setback with so much style.
The skater, a dual citizen of South Korea and the United States, told the Detroit Free Press that the hook on her top came undone just seconds into her routine
AFP or licensors
Yura and her partner Alexander were all smiles after their performance
She posted this photo after the mishap with the headline 'oopsie'
“I was like, ‘Oh no!’” she said. “If that comes undone, the whole [outfit] could just pop off. I was terrified the entire programme.”
The ice star was determined not to stop in the middle of the performance, however, and instead changed her movements so her arms would be kept back, preventing her costume from falling off.
She only paused once, during the twizzles when her top began slipping off her shoulder.
“It started to come down so I had to stop my twizzle and pull it back up," she revealed.
Getty Images - Getty
Yura managed to finish the routine with her outfit still in place
AP:Associated Press
The pair finished in 9th place but will compete again the Games
Yura managed to finish the routine with her outfit still in place - and with a big smile on her face.
She and Gamelin, who will compete together again at the individual pairs competition later this month finished ninth out of 10 teams.
Canada’s Tessa Virtue and Scott Moir, the reigning world champions, came first with 80.51 points.

