Continue reading the main story
With any new piece of equipment, there is an assumption that it has been tested, tested again and tested some more. At ice rinks, laboratories and wind tunnels around the world, the top countries are engaged in a hush-hush arms race, a different sort of cold war. Lockheed Martin Aeronautics was involved in the development of the racing suits worn by the United States at the last Winter Games.
Every so often, there are revolutionary innovations in materials, design or construction. Sometimes, there are flops, like the suit worn by the Americans in 2014 — the grandiosely named, and ultimately underperforming , Mach 39 from Under Armour — featuring a dimpled, vented material.
But the notion that certain colors could be faster than others? Some skaters found it preposterous. Others accepted it. Many were just confused.
“They said it skates a little faster than red, so I like to believe that,” Hege Bokko, a Norwegian skater, said after stepping off the ice last month in the team’s new blue suit.
But what does that mean, exactly?
“I have no clue,” she said, smiling. “The Koreans and Germans are also skating in blue, so maybe it’s something.”
Never mind the fancy scientists who scratched their heads at the premise.
“I have come to a point in my life that I have sufficient confidence in what I’ve done and what I know, but at the same time I’m not so arrogant to dismiss claims people make,” said Renzo Shamey, a professor of color science and technology at North Carolina State University, which has a leading textiles program.
“Having said that, based on my knowledge of dye chemistry, I cannot possibly imagine how dyeing the same fabric with two dyes that have the same properties to different hues would generate differing aerodynamic responses.”
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
Chris Needham, an equipment technician for the United States team and former national team skater, said the discussion reminded him of a conversation he had with a ski jumper years ago at the Olympic training center in Lake Placid, N.Y. When Needham asked why so many ski jumpers seemed to be wearing orange suits, the jumper replied, “It flies better.”
Continue reading the main story
Photo
Johann Olav Koss winning gold for Norway at the 1994 Winter Games. “The Norwegians’ whole history is with the legendary red suits,” said Hein Otterspeer, a speedskater from the Netherlands. Credit Simon Bruty/Getty Images
This sort of matter-of-factness about junk science was echoed in Norway.
“It’s been proven that blue is faster than other colors,” said Dai Dai Ntab, a sprint specialist for the Netherlands. “Every Olympic season, everybody is trying to find the hidden gem. This year it’s the blue suits.”
Ntab seemed at least half-serious as he continued: “At the end of the day, winning is the biggest goal, so if it’s faster to skate in the blue, I think Holland should consider changing.”
Newsletter Sign Up
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred. Please try again later.
You are already subscribed to this email.

