Hazel Green boys beat Muscle Shoals for area title
By Craig Thomas  Sports Writer
Feb 11, 2018
Save
MUSCLE SHOALS – Though Saturday night's Class 6A Area 16 title game was not a must-win moment for either Muscle Shoals or Hazel Green, it came with a reward usually reserved for the following round.
McAdory’s forfeiture of games leaves that school ineligible for the postseason, giving Saturday’s winner a bye straight into the Northwest Regional at Hanceville.
Hazel Green gets to take advantage after building a big lead, surviving a game-tying comeback and pulling away from host Muscle Shoals for a 77-69 win.
Muscle Shoals (23-4), which lost for the first time since late December, must get to Hanceville the traditional way and will visit Hueytown for a sub-regional Tuesday night.
Muscle Shoals trailed 23-11 after one quarter, and though the host Trojans eventually tied the game late in the third quarter it was an unusually flat start.
“They made a bunch of shots in the first quarter and we didn’t. They got some offensive rebounds and we didn’t,” Muscle Shoals coach Neal Barker said. “They just outplayed us in the first half. That’s the bottom line.”
Muscle Shoals trimmed its deficit to 36-29 at half. Terrell McDonald and Riley Wolgamott each hit a pair of third-quarter 3s, with Wolgamott’s latter trey tying the game at 46 with 2:06 to go.
Each team had chances to jump ahead in the frantic sequence that followed, but Hazel Green star Kira Lewis eventually hit a 3 that triggered a 7-0 run to close the quarter.
McDonald’s 3-point play and Mark Sears’ floater cut Hazel Green’s lead to 55-51 early in the fourth, but Hazel Green ran off six straight points.
“I think we’ve had the toughest schedule in 6A,” Hazel Green coach Danny Anderson said. “We beat Mountain Brook, which is No. 1 in 7A. We played Sparkman three times, which is ranked in the top 10. It’s a top 5 program. You play in our area with Muscle Shoals and Athens and Florence and three of those teams were ranked in the top 10 (much of the) year.
“I think our schedule credits our kids the ability to handle adversity and be able to make plays when we need to.”
Wolgamott led Muscle Shoals with 25 points and McDonald added 20. Mikey McIntosh and Jacob Vandiver each added 9.
Lewis, a junior guard with a host of Division I offers, made two consecutive steals and layups as Hazel Green pulled away and led all scorers with 33 points. Jordan Beck added 14 and Jimmy Panno 10.
While Hazel Green’s spot in Hanceville is secure, the next step for Muscle Shoals is to learn more about Hueytown, which is located in the Birmingham area, and develop a plan.
“I know they’re good. They won their area and I’ve heard from some other people that they’ve got a good team,” Barker said. “Don’t know anything about them yet but I know it’ll be a challenge going on a two-hour drive to Birmingham and having to play at their place.
“We’ve got our work cut out for us, but we can do it.”

