The interactive transcript could not be loaded.
Loading...
Rating is available when the video has been rented.
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later.
Published on Feb 12, 2018
Here @ football betting tips we have profits of over £3500 to just £10.00 level stakes within the Year of 2017 and you can follow our selections for as little as £2.00 per Month!
Website : http://footballbettingtips.tk
Twitter : @FBT_Syndicate
Football betting tips maintains long term strike rates because we cover every statistic in the finest of details, which plays a key role if you want take your betting to a professional level, and make steady long term profits.
As a highly successful football betting tips team, we cover every aspect of football analysis over a 40 - 50 hours a week schedule.
This enables us to consistently achieve the overall strike rates each Month , and maintain them for the length of time that we have, this is the reason that we have managed to retain our long term members for such a long period of time.
If you are interested in doing your own football betting tips, and you have the time to carry out all of the football analysis needed, then just research the statistics which can be found at the bottom of our home page before making your football betting tips selections.
To maintain a high success rate we only select games from 12 of the best football leagues in the world, because what we have found since we started with our football analysis and research way back in 2011, Is that for the most consistent results you are best sticking with top quality teams with top quality players and managers ect......
I think that you will agree with us that most of the current best players in the world play in either the Premier League, La Liga, the Bundesliga, Serie A, Ligue 1 or the Brasileirao, but with China now coming in with big money offers for players, we think that this could really shake things up for the current transfer markets and the leagues listed here, but only time will tell.
Our current weekly schedule is to do 40 - 50 hours a week of detailed analysis on the types of statistics listed further down the page, and we cover 12 of the top leagues all around the world which are also listed further down the page, because what we have found is that by sticking to these strict set of rules and keeping very disciplined with our betting selections, we have managed to maintain long term strike rates of 60% - 80% within our chosen betting markets, with prices ranging from 1/4 up to 3/1.
This has helped us retain our current full access members, and achieve a nice long term profit from each of our chosen markets month after month, and year after year, we have recently decided to offer the exact same selections to anybody else that may be interested in making long term profits? 2017 has been a fantastic year for us and our long term members, so why not join us for an even more successful 2018.
Football Leagues of the highest quality are vital when it comes to maintaining a high betting strike rate over a long period of time, which is essentially why we have always focused our attention on only carrying out analysis on the leagues listed below.
Football betting tips match analysis is a crucial part of the selection process if you are aiming to make steady long term profits from your football betting, we currently spend 40 - 50 hours a week on our match analysis, and we currently cover 12 of the best football leagues in the world.
football betting football betting strategy football betting tips football betting systems football betting tricks football betting odds explained football betting predictions football betting tips high success rate football betting explained football betting advert how to bet on football and win best way to bet on football how to bet on football online football odds read football odds right soccer betting soccer betting strategy soccer betting tips soccer betting system soccer betting secrets football betting secrets soccer betting tricks soccer betting predictions soccer betting software soccer betting tips and predictions football betting tips and predictions soccer betting tips and tricks football betting tips and tricks soccer betting odds football betting odds soccer betting documentary football betting documentary soccer predictions, today soccer predictions, football betting tips, free betting tips, free soccer betting tips, free today soccer match predictions, daily football predictions, soccer betting tips, football betting tips and predictions, football betting tips and tricks, football betting secrets, football betting systems, football betting strategy, football betting, football betting odds explained, football betting predictions, football betting tips high success rate, how to bet on football and win, how to bet on football online, sports betting secrets.
Category

