Opt out or contact us anytime
Public opinion began to change somewhat after the South Korea men’s team defeated its archrival and Asian power Japan for the first time in 2016, Yang said. The South Korea women’s team won the world championship for fourth-tier hockey nations in 2017. (At the Olympics, North and South Korea will have a joint women’s hockey team .)
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
“I think since then, Korean people started to open their hearts and became more interested in our team,” Yang said, “although there are still people who are not used to the idea of naturalization.”
Frisch, the luger, is not expected to win a medal at the Olympics and has struggled through foot injuries in the lead-up to the Winter Games. But Joo Se-ki, an assistant South Korean luge coach, said that Frisch has worked hard to fit in and provides valuable insight into training, know-how and even maintenance of sleds.
“The team has learned a lot from Aileen,” Joo said.
For some South Korean Olympians, dual citizenship has brought a reconnection with the land of their birth.
Continue reading the main story
Photo
Brandt, second from right, warming up with her teammates ahead of a recent game against Quinnipiac University in Connecticut. Credit Chang W. Lee/The New York Times
Marissa Brandt, 25, a hockey player, was born in South Korea, adopted by American parents and grew up in Minnesota. In December 2016, after two months of presenting her birth certificate, adoption papers and other paperwork to prove where she was born, Brandt was given a South Korean passport.
Her birth name is Park Yoon-jung, which she wears on her jersey because that is “really my only tie to Korea.” Her younger sister, Hannah, plays for the United States national team, and they have talked often about how much fun it would be to play against each other at the Olympics.
“We always joke about who my mom and dad would cheer for,” Marissa said.
The language barrier in South Korea was forbidding, at first, and Brandt thought to herself, “How will I make it here?”
But her Korean-born teammates were welcoming and now they give one another language lessons, Brandt said. When South Korea won the world championship for lower-division teams in April, she said in an email, it was “a big turning point in terms of how I saw myself.”
As the South Korean flag was raised and the national anthem was played, Brandt felt proud to be Korean. “It really was in that specific moment that I became O.K. with who I was and where I came from,” she said. “When I was younger, I shied away from embracing my Korean heritage. I just wanted to fit in and not look any different.”
Continue reading the main story
Photo
Brandt, right, playing against Quinnipiac in December, said, “When I was younger, I shied away from embracing my Korean heritage.” Credit Chang W. Lee/The New York Times
Photo
The South Korean national anthem played before a game in December. Credit Chang W. Lee/The New York Times
Jackie Kling, 23, a freestyle skier, was also born in South Korea and adopted by American parents. She grew up in Pennsylvania and visited South Korea for the first time on a ski trip in 2014. “It was a bit of a culture shock at times, being a person that looks Korean but doesn’t speak the language,” Kling said.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
During that trip, serious conversations began with the Korean Ski Association about competing for South Korea. They continued into 2015, and Kling gained dual citizenship. She competes under her birth name, Lee Mee-hyun, and said in an email that she had been widely embraced by athletes and officials.
“It may be because they consider myself Korean and not a real outsider,” Kling said.
While in South Korea, Kling has tried to meet her biological parents. These are never easy decisions for children who have been adopted, she said, describing the search as “tiring” from an emotional and procedural standpoint.
But she added, “It is something I am still looking into and will see what happens in the future.”
A version of this article appears in print on February 12, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: A Nation Got the Olympics. It Lacked Olympians. Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe

