pain game
Neymar could be doubt for PSG’s Champions League clash with Real Madrid after Toulouse kicking
PSG boss Unai Emery played Neymar in Saturday's league win despite resting host of big names with midweek trip to the Bernabeu in mind
By Warren Haughton
11th February 2018, 12:41 pm
Updated: 11th February 2018, 1:35 pm
NEYMAR could be a doubt for Wednesday’s Champions League clash with Real Madrid after Paris Saint-Germain’s bruising win against Toulouse.
The 26-year-old is in line to feature in his first game back in Spain since he swapped Barcelona for Paris last summer.
AFP or licensors
Neymar scored only goal of game in win at Toulouse on Saturday
Neymar scores, hits the post and hits the bar for PSG against Toulouse
PSG boss Unai Emery rested a host of stars with the midweek trip to the Bernabeu in mind.
The Brazilian superstar played and scored the only goal of the game at the Municipal stadium but was subjected to some roughhouse treatment from the home side.
And after the win, Neymar took to social media to share a picture of both his heavily strapped ankles in ice packs.
He declared on Instagram: “No pain, no gain.”
Most read in Football
Baggies boss Pardew given two games to save his job after 'taxi-gate'
POGBARGH
Man Utd boss Mourinho involved in huge dressing room bust-up with Pogba and Jones
'OPEN THE DOOR YOU SL**'
Prem ace's fiancee TRAPS mistress in home after catching them out
Ditch the dad
Eubank Jr told to find a proper trainer after being 'schooled' by Groves
HUNGRY DEVIL
Man Utd ace Jesse Lingard heads out for meal with stunning partner Jena Frumes
JOSE SEES RED
PSG chase Marcos Rojo as Jose Mourinho fumes over delays in contract talks
Instagram@neymarjr
Neymar posted picture of iced ankles after Toulouse win
AFP or licensors
Neymar was on the receiving end of some rough tackles from Toulouse
AFP or licensors
Neymar hits the deck again after another foul in Toulouse win
Perhaps the post is a swipe at the Toulouse players, but Los Blancos will be hoping Neymar may not be at his best if he recovers in time Wednesday’s first leg at the Bernabeu.
Despite playing for bitter rivals Barca, Neymar has been linked with an incredible return to Spain with Real Madrid in recent months.
BERNA-BOO Cristiano Ronaldo slams Real Madrid fans for booing under-fire Karim Benzema after striker misses sitter in Real Sociedad win
Since his move to the French capital, Neymar has hit 26 goals for PSG.
Emery's side have a huge advantage in the title race leading champions Monaco by 12 points in Ligue 1.

