Comment Bubble Icon
Matthias Hangst/Getty Images
Germany's Laura Dahlmeier claimed her second gold medal of the 2018  Winter Olympics as she triumphed in the women's 10-kilometre biathlon pursuit in Pyeongchang, South Korea, on Monday. 
Dahlmeier missed just once in her four visits to the shooting range to help her hold off Anastasiya Kuzmina, who claimed the silver medal.
Slovakian Kuzmina had caught Dahlmeier despite starting 54 seconds behind her, but she squandered her chance of a gold medal with two misses on the range in the third round of shooting.
Anais Bescond of France was pipped to silver by just two-tenths of a second and pushed into the bronze-medal position at the line after a fierce final-lap battle with Kuzmina.
Having won the 7.5-kilometre biathlon sprint on Saturday, Dahlmeier created history on Monday as she became the first woman to complete the sprint-pursuit double at the same Games, per Gracenote:
Gracenote Olympic @GracenoteGold
Laura Dahlmeier () joins Kati Wilhelm ()as the only athletes to win the Olympic title in the women's sprint 磊and pursuit 磊event, and she is the first to do so at a single Olympic Winter Games. #TeamD #PyeongChang2018
Her triumph means Germany now have four gold medals at Pyeongchang 2018, more than any other nation.
Here is the latest medal table:
It was Dahlmeier's coolness on the range that saw her to victory in the end.
She had the advantage of starting ahead of the rest of the field because of her sprint gold, but it was abundantly clear she would not have the pace on the skis if it came to a straight race with Kuzmina.
The pair both missed once on the second visit to the range, but when it came to the first standing shoot Dahlmeier went clean and Kuzmina missed twice.
The 24-year-old German then avoided any penalties by going clean again in the fourth and final round of shooting, while Kuzmina missed once.
As a result Dahlmeier cruised to victory by almost 30 seconds before a thrilling battle to the line for silver, which Kuzmina just edged with a final push.
Defending women's pursuit champion Darya Domracheva of Belarus had to settle for 37th place at the Alpensia Biathlon Centre after accruing six penalties for misses. 
Facebook Logo

