Opt out or contact us anytime
“It’s not for the faint of heart,” Vera Wang, who has created figure skating costumes for the last 20 years, told People magazine this month. “If one strap were to break, or if the beading on the sleeve gets caught when they turn, their whole Olympics is over. That is how serious it is. It’s absolutely nightmarish!”
At the elite level, a team of seamstresses stand by to make last-minute costume repairs, but when a wardrobe malfunction happens mid-performance, skaters have only themselves to rely on.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
In her book “Only With Passion,” the German gold medalist Katarina Witt described a moment in Paris in 1987, a few months before the Calgary Olympics, when she accidentally exposed one of her breasts.
“I’d wanted to wear a costume that looked like a bustier, but it took months to be made, and when it finally arrived I didn’t have time to try it on during practice,” she wrote. “Big mistake. The top of the costume was made of elastic, and in the middle of a spin I could feel it sliding down, down, down.”
For the rest of the program, she skated with her arms pressed against her sides, afraid to move them.
In 2009, the same problem happened to the Russian skater Ekaterina Rubleva, whose strap popped off during a performance with her partner, Ivan Shefer, during the European championships in Helsinki, Finland.
Min escaped a similar fate.
When the performance ended, one of the Olympic commentators said “it could have actually been a much worse of a problem for her” were it not for the rest of the costume being well designed.
Min and Gamelin placed second to last in the team event.
“I promise to sew myself in for the individual event,” Min s aid on Twitter on Sunday, punctuating her words with a laughing emoji. “I would like to thank the audience for keeping us going until the end. Couldn’t have done it without you guys.”
—         Yura Min (민유라) (@Yuraxmin) Feb. 11, 2018
Min and her partner never had high expectations, she told The Boston Globe last week.
“We’re not going for a medal or anything, so there’s not that much pressure on us,” she said. “We just want to have fun.”
A version of this article appears in print on February 12, 2018, on Page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: A Dress Doesn’t Cooperate, but the Show Goes On. Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe

