Visit on Facebook
Shuster — who once said “If I don’t have pizza three or four times a week I’m not happy” — changed his diet and started working out. He resolved to recruit his own team.
“I sent a Facebook message that said, 'The high-performance program decided to go in another direction but if anyone wants to join my high-performance team, shoot me a message,’” he said. “I got a lot of messages.”
U.S. Olympic curlers (from left) Matt Hamilton, John Shuster, John Landsteiner, Tyler George and Joe Polo are hoping for redemption at the 2018 Winter Games.
 (Photo: Getty Images)
Shuster settled on Tyler George, Matt Hamilton and John Landsteiner as his new teammates. (Joe Polo has since been added as the alternate). The four became known in the curling world as “Team Reject.” At least, until Team Reject  won the national championship, and the high-performance program decided to invite the men to join.
Now Shuster is back at the Olympics, 35 pounds lighter than the last time around. 
“No question, there’s some vindication,” he said. “I don’t hold a grudge. But to get back here, four years later, is something to be proud of.”
RELATED:  Meet the Wisconsin Olympians for the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Games
Roth, by contrast, admits to “feeling butterflies” as she and her teammates prepare to compete at the Olympics for the first time. The girl who started curling after her Girl Scout troop took a trip to a rink has grown into a skip with the potential to win the first Olympic medal in women’s curling for the United States.
“We practiced to deal with those nerves,” she said. “We like to laugh and have fun. We’ll probably just try to get together and be as team-y as possible.”
Nina Roth (from left), Tabitha Peterson, Aileen Geving and Corey Christensen of the United States women's curling team are focused on having fun to control their jitters.
 (Photo: Getty Images)
That team includes Tabitha Peterson, Aileen Geving, Becca Hamilton and Cory Christensen. It finished fifth at the 2017 World Championship.
So maybe the old guys can find redemption. Maybe the new women can break through.
“Our goal is definitely a medal," Roth said. "We'd have a party, for sure."
Nina Roth of Madison is the skip for the U.S. women's curling team.
 (Photo: Getty Images)

