MS Dhoni has been highly accurate with his DRS calls
DRS is often referred as 'Dhoni Review System' by fans
Dhoni's DRS calls have helped India on many occasions
MS Dhoni proved yet again during the 4th India vs South Africa ODI that he is the best judge when it comes to DRS calls. (BCCI)
HIGHLIGHTS
MS Dhoni has been highly accurate with his DRS calls
DRS is often referred as 'Dhoni Review System' by fans
Dhoni's DRS calls have helped India on many occasions
MS Dhoni proved yet again during the 4th India vs South Africa ODI that he is the best judge when it comes to DRS calls Dhoni has time and again showed that he's one of the smartest cricketers ever to play the game. As a captain, Dhoni regularly surprised his opponents with unex
MS Dhoni proved yet again during the 4th India vs South Africa ODI that he is the best judge when it comes to DRS calls
Dhoni has time and again showed that he's one of the smartest cricketers ever to play the game. As a captain, Dhoni regularly surprised his opponents with unexpected bowling changes, field placements and batting-order changes. These changes more often than not helped India distort the plans of their rivals.
The Ranchi cricketer has now handed over the captaincy to Virat Kohli but he continues to help the team with his accurate calls from behind the stumps, especially with the Decision Review System (DRS). The review system is often referred to as 'Dhoni Review System' by cricket fans because of Dhoni's unbelievable consistency with the DRS calls.
And his brilliance was yet again on display during the fourth ODI against South Africa at Johannesburg on Saturday. In the 8th over of the South African innings, pacer Jasprit Bumrah moved a ball back in sharply to beat Hashim Amla. The ball zoomed past through the gap between bat and pad but Indian fielders were convinced that the opener had edged the delivery. In fact even Dhoni appealed for the dismissal.
Virat Kohli though was convinced that he had heard something and even consulted Rohit about going for the review.
MS Dhoni though quickly signalled to Kohli that there was no bat involved and that they shouldnt go for a review here.
"Dhoni Review System" pic.twitter.com/njA8DdVU8q
Convinced that the ball had clipped the bat, vice-captain Rohit Sharma prompted Kohli to take the review. However, a smiling Dhoni signalled to the skipper that there was no bat involved and helped India save a precious review.
The replays after the incident confirmed that Dhoni was indeed correct with his judgement, like always.
In December last year at Dharamsala during the first ODI against Sri Lanka, Dhoni surprised everyone with a call from the non-striker's end. The wicketkeeper-batsman went for DRS even before the umpire could raise his finger to give Bumrah out, who was rapped on the pads off Sachith Pathirana's bowling.
The umpires felt Bumrah was out leg before but a confident Dhoni challenged the decision immediately. The decision was revised after replays showed that the impact was outside the line.
DRS by href="https://twitter.com/msdhoniref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@msdhoni before ump raised the finger. @cricketaakash said Dhoni Review System (DRS), very well said. Boss of the ODIs for a reason href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/INDvSLsrc=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#INDvSL pic.twitter.com/m50If2q7ws
Mitul Srivastava (@im_Ms7) December 11, 2017
Coming back to the Saturday, India were handed their first defeat in the ongoing ODI series. The visitors lost the match by five wickets after South Africa chased down the reduced target of 202 with 15 balls remaining.
Batting first, Shikhar Dhawan's century in his 100th ODI and another half-century from Kohli helped his team post 289/7 in 50 overs. Due to bad weather the target was revised.
India looked destined for a victory after the opponents were reduced for 4/102 but valuable innings from David Miller (39), Heinrich Klaasen (43*) and Andile Phehlukwayo (23*) helped the home team win their first match in the series.
The 36-year-old's awareness and game sense has been his biggest forte, something which has helped him to stay at least a step ahead of his contemporaries. And even though he's not the appointed leader of this team anymore, his ability to read the game better than anyone him makes him an absolute genius on the field.
Do You Like This Story?
6

