Women and Words
Olympic Magic
Yep, it’s that time again. That time when the world is supposed to come together and celebrate the best of the best. The creme of the crop. What sport do you look most forward to?
Figure skating?
My mom loved to watch figure skating. The individual competition, the couples, the graceful movements, the exciting jumps and spins. But no matter their fancy duds, figure skaters are a tough breed. Learning to execute those spins and jumps I’ve heard can be a very painful proposition. And, the Super Bowl isn’t the only performance that’s had a wardrobe malfunction. Check out how our skater powered through hers here .
Then there’s the sport that lights the fire of the folks who like their feet locked on a board. Whoooooosh!! Of course, the jury is still out on Shaun White’s hair .
And comes my personal fav. Downhill racing. Anything downhill. Slalom, giant slalom, super g, downhill. Very little known factoid: I used to be a downhill ski racer in high school. I loved it. I still vividly remember planting my poles in the starting gate my last race, listening to the beeps and exploding out of the gate, attacking that course like a maniac. It was nothing like the Olympics, but it was my moment, and I shined. Until I crashed. I can only imagine what it’s like for the Lindsey Vonn and the rest of the US Ski Team. You can bet I’ll be watching. Need a primer? Here you go.
On to ski jumping…man, this is something I’d loveeeeee to try but holy cow, I think I’m way too big a chicken. But seriously, how fun would it be to soar through the air like a bird, and then touch down like an angel? It’s such an amazingly beautiful sport to watch. Here’s ski jumping 101 for those wanting to know more.
Then there’s the skeleton. Where did they come up with the name for that? Regardless, it looks terrifying and one hella lot of fun! Or not. Here’s a taste!
Hockey. Men’s and, best of all, women’s!! So exciting! It’s going to be a huge showdown between the US and Canada women’s teams , and I cannot wait.
Yeah, I’ve never understood the appeal of cross country, but who I am to judge? One of my best friends in school was a cross country skier, and all of them were amazing athletes. I tried a couple of times to ski cross country, and I spent more time on my behind than I did on my feet. Here’s a guide I need to read to understand and appreciate the sport!
Then add weaponry to cross country skis and look the hell out. Hello Biathalon ! All I can say is it’s a good thing no one put a gun in my hands when I made my feeble attempt at learning to use those two treacherous narrow planks, or I might have shot them in half.
Bobsledding  baby! We have Jazmine Fenlator-Victorian, the American born Jamaican leading the Jamaican woman’s bobsledding team. She’s got quite a story, and you can check it out here ! So many athletes have this kind of windy, crazy story!
And then there’s curling. I hadn’t given curling much thought until new owners took over Once Upon a Crime, the bookstore where I occasionally work. They curl. I was like….whaaaaaaaa? And here you go! Check out this zen curling explanation here and you, too will be ogling curling with a new eye.
Got the zoomies? If you do you might want to check out speed skating! There’s the short track and long track, and you can read about the differences here . I always thought it would be a fun sport to try.
There are many variations to the sports I’ve thrown in above, but those are most of the bigger fish the Olympics will be frying for the next couple of weeks. Which ones will you be watching? Or will you be watching at all? What are your thoughts?
 

