Alan Pardew provides West Brom injury update for Chelsea trip
Three key players return for WBA but the news isn't all good
by Paul Suart
Updated
21:37, 11 Feb 2018
Alan Pardew is relieved to have three key players back tonight, but must wait a while on the fitness of others within his squad.
First-choice trio - Jonny Evans, Kieran Gibbs and Grzegorz Krychowiak - have been passed fit to face Chelsea at Stamford Bridge.
“It balances us up a little better,” Pardew said.
“The form they were in, Grzegorz, Evans, Gibbs, was such that losing them was a big blow.”
But the news is not so great on Nacer Chadli (hip), James Morrison (Achilles) and Jake Livermore (hamstring).
Chadli’s comeback from injury in December lasted just 16 minutes and he hasn’t featured since.
Read More
Alan Pardew gives his verdict on Antonio Conte's Chelsea future ahead of West Brom clash
 
Pardew had pencilled Chadli in for a return in early March when the extent of his relapse was revealed late last year.
But it sounds as though the Belgian international might now struggle to figure next month.
“Morrison is still some way off and Chadli is a long way off,” Pardew said.
 
“He (Chadli) is not out on the training ground yet.
“Jake is a while away. I can’t see him making the FA Cup game (against Southampton) but maybe the week after.”
Hal Robson-Kanu (hamstring) is expected to miss the match while new signing Ali Gabr is ineligible as he is yet to receive a work permit.
 
 
DEBATE: Albion's best XI
Injuries have been hampering West Brom’s hopes of collecting Premier League points on a more regular basis in recent weeks and months - there’s no getting away from it.
Albion had been missing the creativity and technique of James Morrison and Nacer Chadli for longer than most, and to this day await their respective returns.
Read More
Relegation verdict, the perfect XI, team news and the ultimate quiz - West Brom round up
 
The absence of Kieran Gibbs, Jonny Evans and Grzegorz Krychowiak ahead of the match with Southampton last weekend proved to be too much.
Alan Pardew’s patched up Baggies were overrun in midfield and didn’t defend well enough from set-pieces in the first half.
With both Jake Livermore and Hal Robson-Kanu out too, it made for a very inexperienced bench indeed.
Pardew is likely to have a few bodies back for the trip to Chelsea on Monday - a welcome boost as they look to drag themselves out of the hole they find themselves in.
A clean bill of health sadly mightn’t be a luxury Pardew will be able to enjoy between now and the end of the season, but it begs the question - what is Albion’s best XI when everybody IS available?
We asked five of our writers to name their preferred XIs - and wouldn’t you know it, we all had the same team!
Pardew wouldn’t be short on options if he could boast a full strength group, but it appears the best XI may not be as difficult to name as first thought.
The only potential disagreement comes with the formation.
Do you play two up top, or a focal point with floods of creativity behind him? Or both?
Our teams...
Albion - 4-3-1-2 (Gregg Evans, Joseph Chapman)
Albion - 4-2-3-1 (Paul Suart, Kieran Doody)
Read More
Who missed out?
The contenders.
Now, as we say, Pardew would have a wealth of choice if he was to ever find himself in a situation which involved a full squad to select from.
Who are the potential candidates to come into the side who haven't made our above XI?
James Morrison
Morrison hasn’t been seen since he replaced Jake Livermore in Albion’s 2-0 defeat at Arsenal way back in September.
Pardew revealed that he was expecting the Scot back late February to early March prior to last month’s win over Brighton.
The Achilles is a rather temperamental injury, and Morrison has suffered setbacks in his recovery.
When fit (hopefully before the end of the season) Morrison offers an effective threat in between opposing lines.
Jake Livermore
England international Livermore has been relatively injury free during his year or so at The Hawthorns, but was missing for the Southampton defeat.
While many will understandably point out that Albion missed Grzegorz Krychowiak’s engine and creativity, Livermore’s legs would have also made a telling difference in between Gareth Barry and the cautious Claudio Yacob.
Salomon Rondon
Rondon played well on Saturday, despite the result, and deserved his goal - even if there was an element of fortune about it.
The Venezuelan has offered up some seriously impressive performances for Pardew, not always rewarded with a goal.
There have been times, too, when he has missed gilt-edged chances to give Albion a leg up in games.
Matt Phillips
Phillips has struggled to impact matches in the same vein as he did last season.
The winger’s only league goal came in the 2-3 reverse to Manchester City back in October and he’s managed only two assists.
Phillips didn’t endear himself on Saturday when his half-hearted attempt in a 50-50 challenge led to Southampton’s first goal.
He is truly a confidence player, though, and on his day he can be a particularly useful wide man.
What’s your preferred XI, when every player is fit?
To use the interactive

