Opt out or contact us anytime
“I have my own apartment,” she said. “I should be with my four teammates, in this apartment with five rooms, but they want to wait to make sure that I’m 100 percent.”
The team physician comes and takes a swab from her nose, which is then tested in a piece of equipment that Matintalo enthusiastically described as “very cool.” She predicted she would move back in with roommates in another day or two.
The Australian team takes a more pitiless approach. The 20 or so members of the squad who have been deemed medal contenders have been hived off to live in what a spokesman called a “sub site” that puts plenty of distance between them and the lesser members of the team.
Continue reading the main story
Photo
Finnish skier Johanna Matintalo (25) racing on Saturday. She caught a cold a week before the Games began and was banished to her own apartment, segregated from her teammates. Credit Doug Mills/The New York Times
The fear of colds is spread evenly throughout the Games. It’s prevalent in curling, even among “skips,” whose main job is to stand near the target and shout directions to teammates. Compared with a cross-country skier who has to race for 50 kilometers, this is a day off with a cocktail.
But the retired Canadian curler Kevin Martin, who is providing commentary for NBC here, said he was scrupulous about his health because catching a cold while he was competing put his mind in a muddle.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
“Curling skips are really, really smart and very crafty,” he said. “It’s like a game of chess. You come on to that field of play and you’re not as sharp? Oh boy, you’re in trouble.”
Many teams have a doctor whose job is to maximize the odds that athletes can travel and compete in the best possible condition. For American biathletes, that is Randy Wilber, who in January flew from Colorado to Italy, where the team was competing in a World Cup event, to lay out a detailed plan for traveling to Pyeongchang.
He offered common sense ideas about jet lag, hygiene, sleep and diet. To some extent, the plan was an end in itself.
“Just the fact that you have a plan and you know that it’s been really well thought out by people who’ve worked with hundreds of athletes means you don’t have to worry as much,” said Max Cobb, president of the U.S. Biathlon Association. “That is a stress-reducer.”
Less stress, fewer colds. So the trick is to worry about colds just enough to enhance prevention without getting so worried that it leads to illness. The solution for the United States snowboarder Meghan Tierney is to not worry at all.
“This might sound weird, but I think the best way to prevent colds is to, like, not try to prevent them,” she said after a team news conference. “If you don’t think you’re going to get sick, you’re not going to get sick.”
This is a recently developed hunch. A week and a half ago, Tierney was anxious about catching a cold right before the Olympics and that is precisely what happened.
“I’m fine today, but because of that cold I now think I won’t get sick while I’m here.”
Is that science talking, or you?
“It’s more me,” she said.
A version of this article appears in print on February 12, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: A Sound That Chills Athletes to the Bone: Achoo!. Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe

