CREATING SMILES FOR MILES POWER OF 1 The choice is yours
Disclaimer
1. Contributions once made cannot be refunded or cancelled.
2. Big Tree Entertainment Pvt Ltd (BEPL) is facilitating the transactions on the platform www.in.bookmyshow.com The proceeds of the same will be used for the benefit of certain sections of public / charitable purposes (“Purpose”).
3. BEPL may at its discretion either (i) donate the proceeds collected to entities, persons, organisations, trusts engaged in activities directly related in the furtherance of the  Purpose (ii) by directly undertaking/engaging in activities which are related to the Purpose .
4. Persons, entities, organisations, Trusts to whom BEPL makes such voluntary contributions have represented to BEPL that the end use of such contributions will only be towards the Purpose.
5. BEPL expressly disclaims any and all liability and assumes no responsibility whatsoever for consequences resulting from any actions or inactions of any other person, entity, and organisation or trust that it may engage with.
6. By proceeding to donate the money, you do so at your own risk and expressly waive any and all claims, rights of action and/or remedies (under law or otherwise) that you may have against BEPL arising out of or in connection with the aforesaid transaction.
7. BEPL will not be held responsible for the issuance of 80G certificate.
8. For any queries, kindly write at [email protected] .
BookASmile is a charity initiative run by India's leading online ticketing platform BookMyShow. Created with a vision to enrich the lives of the less fortunate (children, young adults, senior citizens and physically/mentally challenged individuals ) across India through the medium of Experiences & Enjoyment.
What We Do?
We, at BookASmile are investing a lot of energies to create an inviting community to ensure that they can be privy to opportunities, by incorporating into their lives, activities and experiences from across genres like Sport, Cinema, Arts, Theatre & Music.
ADD Re. 1 to your transaction as a donation. (Uncheck if you do not wish to donate)
T&C*
Disclaimer
1. Contributions once made cannot be refunded or cancelled.
2. Big Tree Entertainment Pvt Ltd (BEPL) is facilitating the transactions on the platform www.in.bookmyshow.com . The proceeds of the same will be used for the benefit of certain sections of public / charitable purposes (“Purpose”).
3. BEPL may at its discretion either (i) donate the proceeds collected to entities, persons, organisations, trusts engaged in activities directly related in the furtherance of the  Purpose (ii) by directly undertaking/engaging in activities which are related to the Purpose .
4. Persons, entities, organisations, Trusts to whom BEPL makes such voluntary contributions have represented to BEPL that the end use of such contributions will only be towards the Purpose.
5. BEPL expressly disclaims any and all liability and assumes no responsibility whatsoever for consequences resulting from any actions or inactions of any other person, entity, and organisation or trust that it may engage with.
6. By proceeding to donate the money, you do so at your own risk and expressly waive any and all claims, rights of action and/or remedies (under law or otherwise) that you may have against BEPL arising out of or in connection with the aforesaid transaction.
7. BEPL will not be held responsible for the issuance of 80G certificate.
8. For any queries, kindly write at [email protected] .
Grab a bite!
Now get your favorite snack at a discounted price!
Oops you have exceeded order limit.  Only 5 items per ticket
Please collect your food from the counter
Reserve A Seat
Please confirm your booking by Paying Online by .
(If you do not confirm your booking will be cancelled automatically)
Cancellation Policy
You can cancel your booking upto .
You will not be charged for any cancellations.
In case you can’t confirm your booking by paying online till before the show, your booking will be cancelled automatically.
Note:
Images are for representation purposes only
Prices inclusive of taxes
3D Movies : Customer need to pay additional charges at the box office for 3D glasses. For 3D Glasses an USAGE CHARGE (non-refundable) of Rs. 30 and DEPOSIT (refundable) of Rs. 20 will have to be paid per ticket at the Cinema. For 3D Glasses an USAGE CHARGE (non-refundable) of Rs. 30 and DEPOSIT (refundable) of Rs. 20 will have to be paid per ticket at the Cinema. For 3D Glasses an USAGE CHARGE (non-refundable) of Rs. 20 and DEPOSIT (refundable) of Rs. 100 will have to be paid per ticket at the Cinema. For 3D Glasses an USAGE CHARGE (non-refundable) of Rs. 20 and DEPOSIT (refundable) of Rs. 30 will have to be paid per ticket at the Cinema. For 3D Glasses an USAGE CHARGE (non-refundable) of Rs.30 and DEPOSIT (refundable) of Rs. 100 will have to be paid per ticket at the Cinema. For 3D Glasses an Usage DEPOSIT (refundable) of Rs. 20 will have to be paid per ticket at the Cinema. For 3D Glasses an USAGE CHARGE (non-refundable) of Rs. 20 and DEPOSIT (refundable) of Rs. 30 will have to be paid per ticket at the Cinema. For 3D Glasses an USAGE CHARGE (non-refundable) of Rs. 20 and DEPOSIT (refundable) of Rs. 30 will have to be paid per ticket at the Cinema. For 3D Glasses an USAGE CHARGE (non-refundable) of Rs. 20 and DEPOSIT (refundable) of Rs. 30 will have to be paid per ticket at the Cinema. For 3D Glasses an USAGE CHARGE (non-refundable) of Rs. 20 and DEPOSIT (refundable) of Rs. 30 will have to be paid per ticket at the Cinema. For 3D Glasses an USAGE CHARGE DEPOSIT (refundable) of Rs. 50 will have to be paid per ticket at the Cinema. For 3D Glasses an USAGE CHARGE DEPOSIT (refundable) of Rs. 100 will have to be paid per ticket at the Cinema. For 3D Glasses an USAGE CHARGE (non-refundable) of Rs.30 and DEPOSIT (refundable) of Rs.50 will have to be paid per ticket at the Cinema. For 3D Glasses an USAGE CHARGE (non-refundable) of Rs.30 and DEPOSIT (refundable) of Rs. 50 will have to be paid per ticket at the Cinema. For 3D Glasses an USAGE CHARGE (non-refundable) of Rs.30 and DEPOSIT (refundable) of Rs. 20 will have to be paid per ticket at the Cinema.
1. Children above 2 years will require full ticket. They will not be allowed inside without tickets, and NO refund for tickets either.
2. Water, Eatables, Cigarette, Paan, Tobacco, Lighter, Matchbox, Drinks, Alcohol, etc. shall STRICTLY NOT be permitted inside the premises.
3. Patrons under influence of alcohol shall STRICTLY NOT be permitted inside the premises.
Kids above the age of 3 years will be charged separately. Please Note: For 3D glasses:
Bangalore: Rs.30 (non-refundable usage charge) collected online as 'additional charges' & Rs.50 refundable deposit payable at the cinema
Bhopal: Rs.20 (non-refundable usage charge) collected online as 'additional charges' & Rs.100 refundable deposit payable at the cinema
Other centers: Rs.20 OR 30 (non-refundable usage charge) & Rs.50 OR 100 (refundable deposit) payable at the cinema.
Bring along your confimation printout to collect the food combo. Ticket Categories with Massage/Recliner feature and/or 3D movies may incur an extra charge. Please check the exact amount on the payment page before proceeding Customers have to carry the printout and SMS of the booking confirmation in order to collect the tickets at the Booking Counter without which the cinema will not issue tickets. Printout is Mandatory in order to collect the tickets at the Booking Counter. An amount of ₹ 20/- per head shall be charged towards the hiring of 3D glasses for 3D movies and the same has to be paid at box office while you collect your tickets. Please note that the movies being played on PRASADS LARGE SCREEN are not an IMAX presentation. Print out compulsory while exchanging your tickets.
Booked tickets will not have allocated seats.
Seats are alloted on the basis of first come first serve.
Collect the tickets 30 mins prior to the show.
Important Notes:
The No Late Admittance rule will be strictly enforced. Kindly arrive early.
The Right of Admission is reserved.
After purchase, no tickets will be refunded or exchanged.
Children below the age of 6 years will not be allowed to enter.
In case of a children's show, children below the age of 3 years will not be allowed to enter.
Vehicles cannot be parked inside Janki Kutir.
The Pay & Park, located opposite Mahesh Lunch Home, can be used for parking.
Inox T&C:
Children above the age of 3 will need a separate ticket ,children will not be allowed in Adult movie .
Please carry a valid age proof for A rated movies -18 years and over only would be given entry .
Tickets are not refundable or transferable .
Outside food and beverages are not allowed ,Right of admission is reserved.
For 3D Glasses a refundable/non-refundable amount may have to be paid per ticket at the cinema. The exact amount will be intimated at the cinema.
1. An internet handling fee will be levied. Please check the same before completing the transaction.
2. You can only pay online to confirm your booking upto before the show.
Booking Summary

