February 11, 2018 04:08 PM
Funny what a few wins will do for a team.
North Carolina’s loss at Clemson on Jan. 30 was its third straight and left the Tar Heels with a 5-5 ACC record and bogged down in the middle of the conference standings.
But Theo Pinson, who had injured his shoulder in the first half of the loss to the Tigers, saw something in the second half — the way the Tar Heels came back and their effort — that that he liked.
“I’m excited,” Pinson said then. “If we play like we did in the second half, we’ll be fine.”
Never miss a local story.
Sign up today for a free 30 day free trial of unlimited digital access.
SUBSCRIBE NOW
For the most part, that’s the way UNC (19-7, 8-5 ACC) has played and Pinson was right. Three wins later, the Tar Heels are back in contention for a double-bye in the ACC tournament and have a chance to start the NCAA tournament in Charlotte.
After the 82-78 loss at Clemson, neither seemed realistic for this UNC team. But Pinson’s injury didn’t turn out to be serious, he was back in the lineup the next game, and the Heels have started to find more scoring balance.
They can build on their hot streak on Monday night with a home game with Notre Dame (15-10, 5-7 ACC). If they play like they did last week, in wins over Duke and N.C. State, the Tar Heels will be primed for a run in Brooklyn in the ACC tournament and the NCAA tournament.
In that Clemson loss, UNC fell behind 44-28 at the half. Then the Heels rallied, behind Cam Johnson and Joel Berry, to win the second half 50-38. They didn’t win the game but there were lessons to be learned in how they played defensively to get back into the game.
UNC’s defense hasn’t been perfect, N.C. State did score 52 in the second half of Saturday’s 96-89 UNC win, but it has been better than that first half of the Clemson game.
N.C. State junior Casey Davison of Raleigh, shows his support for the Tar Heels in a sea of red, prior to the tip-off of the game on Saturday, February 10, 2018 at the PNC Arena in Raleigh, N.C.
Robert Willett rwillett@newsobserver.com
UNC’s scoring balance has also been better. Johnson and Berry were the only two players who scored in double-figures in the Clemson loss. Since then — in wins over Pitt, Duke and State — at least four players have scored in double-figures.
Junior guard Kenny Williams, in particular, has jump-started the offense with his outside shooting. Williams has made 11 of 20 3-pointers and averaged 15.3 points per game during the winning streak. His 3 with 1:33 left on Saturday, with UNC clinging to an 85-83 lead, was the biggest shot in the game for the Tar Heels.
In the six games prior to UNC’s winning streak, Williams had gone 3 of 21 from 3 and averaged just 6.6 points per game.
SHARE

