Facebook Twitter Google+ LinkedIn Pinterest
Wardrobe malfunction threatens Novi ice dancer's Winter Olympics debut
Yura Min, the South Korean ice dancer who trains in Novi, nearly saw disaster in her Olympic debut after her hook came undone on her costume.
Post to Facebook
A link has been posted to your Facebook feed.
23
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Wardrobe malfunction threatens Novi ice dancer's Winter Olympics debut
Jeff Seidel , Detroit Free Press Columnist Published 12:29 a.m. ET Feb. 11, 2018 | Updated 6:34 p.m. ET Feb. 11, 2018
CLOSE
South Korean ice dancer Yura Min and partner Alexander Gamelin, who train in Novi, talk about preparing for the 2018 Olympics. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press
The hook that held together the costume of Novi-trained ice dancer Yura Min, who skated for South Korea in the team event, came undone early in Min's performance in the short program.
(Photo: Daniel Powers/USA Today Sports)
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN 23 COMMENTEMAILMORE
 
GANGNEUNG, South Korea — You ever had that dream where you are standing in front of a group, and you are totally naked?
Well, that’s what Yura Min was frighteningly close to experiencing. In real life. On world-wide television. In her Olympic debut. 
Min, an American citizen who trains at Novi Ice Arena , had a wardrobe malfunction on Sunday while competing in the figure skating team event for South Korea.
“Five seconds into the routine, my hook came undone,” Min said. 
Not just any hook.
It was the hook in the back of her costume that basically holds the whole thing together.
“I was like, ‘Oh no!’ ” she said. “If that comes undone, the whole thing could just pop off. I was terrified the entire program.”
But what could she do? Stop and fix it?
“I didn’t stop,” she said. “I went from the beginning to the end. I didn’t stop because you get a deduction if you stop in the middle of a program. In my head, I was thinking, ‘Is it better to stop and fix it and get the deduction or keep going?’ ”
There was a #KOR wardrobe malfunction during ice dancing #Pyeongchang2018 pic.twitter.com/cRd6QKQdXF
More: ► Winter Olympics 2018: What to watch on Day 3
She ad-libbed the entire routine, forcing herself to keep her arms back, trying to keep her costume from coming undone. 
If she would have followed her routine precisely and brought her arms together at different times, her top would have slipped down.
“This is my first Olympics, our first program and if my top were to come down, that would have been a disaster” she said. “I was very nervous that the entire thing was going to come off.”
She gutted her way through the program with her partner Alexander Gamelin, keeping everything in place.
“The fans kept cheering,” she said. “Obviously, this is my first Olympics. I don’t want to let loose. I was terrified. I tried my best to keep it together.”
The hook that held together the costume of Novi-trained ice dancer Yura Min, who skated for South Korea in the team event, came undone early in Min's performance in the short program.
 (Photo: Daniel Powers/USA Today Sports)
 
During her twizzle routine, her costume dropped dangerously low.
“Anytime she brought her shoulders in, it came down,” Gamelin said. “I only noticed it halfway through. During our twizzle, it came off her shoulder, all of the way. She had to stop and pull it back up and that cost us a bunch of points. It wasn’t because we were skating poorly.”
Min and Gamelin received 51.97 points and placed ninth out of 10 teams. Canada’s Tessa Virtue and Scott Moir earned the highest score with 80.51 points, and Maia Shibutani and her brother Alex, who train in Canton, were second with 75.46 points for Team USA.
“Obviously, there were some things she couldn’t do because her costume came undone,” Gamelin said. “She had to fix it a couple of times. I think the skating was good.”
Read more of Jeff Seidel's coverage from Pyeongchang: 

