By Laura Vitto
2018-02-11 19:11:53 UTC
Though we're just a few days into the 2018 Winter Games, it's possible you're already suffering from Olympics whiplash. 
Signs of Olympics whiplash include: 
Devotion to your country's team.
Regular googling of the time in Pyeongchang, South Korea
A strong need to keep up with multiple concurrent events, despite the disheartening truth that it's impossible to see every event in real time
SEE ALSO: Ranking every sport in the Winter Olympics, even the ridiculous ones
We feel you. We're Olympics obsessives, but we're also normal non-athletes who have to eat, sleep, and (occasionally) get some work done. Gluing ourselves to a live feed from Pyeongchang just won't do.
Instead, we're keeping up with the Winter Games the way we do everything else: through Twitter. Our favorite channels, below:
Olympics, @Olympics
The official account of the International Olympic Committee, @Olympics shares event videos, photos, and updates, plus quotes from winning athletes.
"I would like to send a message to my parents that I really love them and thank you for all the support and belief," - LIM Hyojun #KOR after winning #Gold in the men's 1500m short track. @pyeongchang2018 #Olympics pic.twitter.com/4t0tThyfwK
Olympic Channel, @olympicchannel
Follow for a regular stream of medal standings updates, plus information on how to watch events live.
— Olympic Channel (@olympicchannel) February 11, 2018
U.S. Olympic Team, @TeamUSA
...Or follow the Olympic team account for the country of your choice! 
For Team USA updates, follow for photos from the ground, event coverage, links to athlete profiles, and a very special shout-out to Mr. T . 
Now THAT’S the face of someone who just made #TeamUSA history!  pic.twitter.com/vbBXtVu41M
NBC Olympics, @NBColympics
For video from big moments, NBC has you covered. From Russian figure skater Yevgenia Medvedeva's astonishing short program performance to Team USA luger Chris Mazder's silver-medal winning race, @NBColympics has the clips of the moments you'll want to see, plus streaming links for when you want more.
Chris @Mazdzer makes history with the first men’s singles luge medal for @TeamUSA , bringing home the #Silver ! pic.twitter.com/jnd9VyDcyf
Leslie Jones, @lesdoggg
Saturday Night Live's Leslie Jones's off-the-cuff, hilarious live updates have earned her a reputation as the unofficial queen of Olympics live event coverage. Just as she did for the 2016 Summer Games in Rio, Jones will join NBC in Pyeongchang this year for on-the-ground coverage. And though she isn't in South Korea yet, she's been live-tweeting all weekend.
Now i believe they are related lol this is for real lol @NBCOlympics @Olympics pic.twitter.com/EkIANnoy5d

