Heisman Trophy winner and NFL bust Johnny Manziel working to come back to football
Por
Telegram
Johnny Football wants a comeback.
In an interview with “Good Morning America” that aired Monday, the Heisman Trophy winner and NFL bust says he’s been diagnosed as bipolar and is taking medication for that. And his goal is to get back on the football field.
“I am watching all the other guys doing what I want to be doing and I am sitting on a couch being a loser,” Manziel said.
Johnny Manziel says he’s taking medication to treat his bipolar disorder and still wants to play in the NFL. 
Scott Iskowitz/Getty Images
Manziel said he was diagnosed with bipolar disorder “about a year ago.”
“At the end of the day I can’t help that my wires are a little bit differently crossed than yours, I can’t help my mental makeup of the way that I was created,” Manziel said. “But I know if I stay on these meds and I continue to do what I am doing right now … I think my dad, my mom, I think (girlfriend) Bree (Tiese), would all agree that they see, a drastic change.”
Manziel won the Heisman Trophy at Texas A&M in 2012, the first freshman to take that award. And he was a first-round pick by the Cleveland Browns in 2014. But after two unremarkable seasons, he was out of the league.
He acknowledges there’s no one to blame except himself after the drinking binges documented on social media, and a run-in with the law that included a domestic assault charge.
“You are left staring at the ceiling by yourself and in that depression and back in that dark hole of sitting in a room by yourself, super depressed, thinking about all the mistakes you made in your life,” he said. “What did that get me? Where did that get me except out of the NFL? Where did that get me? Disgraced.”
Manziel says he’s been working out and trying to convince some NFL team to give him a second chance.
“I don’t know what kind of comeback it will be,” he said, “but I know I want to get back on a football field to what brought me so much joy in my life and it makes me happy doing as my job.”

