How the Westminster Dog Show Got Its Name
By CLAUDIO E. CABRERA
Continue reading the main story
Photo
A group of dogs and owners at a news conference for this year’s Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show, which will be held Monday and Tuesday. Credit Justin Lane/European Pressphoto Agency
The Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show will be conducted for the 142nd time beginning Monday, but its origins and how it received its name are not widely known.
The competition, which is billed as the World’s Greatest Dog Show, has cultivated a strong following since it opened in 1877 in New York at Gilmore’s Garden, which later became known as Madison Square Garden . At its inception, the show had over 1,200 dogs entered, and the judges decided on a winner over a three- or four-day period.
Last year, the show had close to 3,000 dogs from all 50 states entered in the competition. The show is now judged over two days.
The show and its name sprang from a hotel that has now been gone for more than a century.
In the 1870s, a group of men met regularly at the Westminster Hotel near Union Square, according to historical accounts. They had such an affinity for the hotel and its bar, as well as for dogs, that they decided to name the show after it.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
In William F. Stifel’s book “ The Dog Show, 125 Years of Westminster, ” he details how the men decided to put on a dog show and name it.
Westminster gets its name from a long gone hotel in Manhattan. ... They couldn’t agree on the name for their new club. But finally someone suggested that they name it after their favorite bar. The idea was unanimously selected, we imagine, with the hoisting of a dozen drinking arms.
On March 28, 1877, The Times covered preparations for the first Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show .
The Westminster Kennel Club, of this City, an organization of gentlemen interested in the improvement of the strains of hunting dogs, in the use of which they find their best amusement, are preparing for an extensive bench show to be held at Gilmore’s Garden, on the 8th, 9th and 10th of May.
After the Kentucky Derby, the Westminster Dog Show is the second-oldest continuously run sporting event in American history. This is the 70th year the dog show has been televised.

