Seo Taiji and Boys, ‘Nan Arayo’ (1992)
Seo Taiji and Boys - "Nan Arayo (I Know)" Video by piugames
A new jack swing anthem from the group widely credited with beginning the innovations that would eventually lead to what is now understood as K-pop. “Nan Arayo” has it all: tender soul harmonies, rat-tat-tat drum machine beats, a Flavor Flav sample and a video that sets hip-hop dance routines to a hard-rock guitar riff.
H.O.T., ‘Candy’ (1996)
H.O.T - "Candy" Video by gganpoongi
Just as the Backstreet Boys were honing the idea of the contemporary boy band in the U.S., H.O.T. was establishing the rules in South Korea: chipper melodies and coordinated outfits you could see from space. Though the group was known for tackling serious topics in its music, this early single was delightful fluff.
Diva, ‘Yo Yo’ (1999)
Diva - "Yo Yo" Video by 0381000
A midcareer hit from Diva, which made its mark as one of the first successful female rap outfits in the country. By this point, the trio’s music was polished, and some of the bite of its early singles had been quelled, but “Yo Yo” still had verve and snap.
g.o.d., ‘Lies’ (2000)
g.o.d. - "Lies" Video by GrooveOverSubs
By the turn of the millennium, boy bands were the currency of K-pop, but g.o.d. imbued that structure with dignity and emotional grounding. “Lies” is one of the group’s biggest singles, a throbbing ballad with a slow-burn music video that’s unerringly sad.
Rain, ‘It’s Raining’ (2004)
Rain - "It's Raining" Video by RAIN's Official Channel
A solo idol emerging from an era of boy bands , Rain was magnetic, an impressive singer and a liquid dancer. “It’s Raining” was one of several chart-topping hits he had in the 2000s, a tightly controlled mix of Michael Jackson-influenced pop, club music, R&B and rock theatrics.
BoA, ‘Everlasting’ (2006)
BoA - "Everlasting" Video by SMTOWN
Since getting discovered at a talent search at the age of 11, BoA has become one of the most durable and versatile K-pop stars, dabbling in R&B, rock, pop and more. This is one of her more conventional songs, a tortured ballad that showcases her plaintive voice.
Girls’ Generation, ‘Gee’ (2009)
Girls' Generation - "Gee" Video by SMTOWN
There can be a saccharine sweetness to K-pop, and bubble gum is an aesthetic the genre doesn’t shy away from. This is often found in its purest form in girl groups. In the last decade, few have been more popular or influential than Girls’ Generation. The aerobic “Gee” is one of its early hits.
Advertisement
2NE1, ‘I Am the Best’ (2011)
2NE1 - "I Am the Best" Video by 2NE1
A postcard from the moment when K-pop, which had been reliably indebted to other countries’ sounds, was beginning to embrace excess as its own style. The girl group 2NE1 was a potent force, almost ruthlessly modern, and “I Am the Best” encapsulated its high-grade attitude.
G-Dragon, ‘Crayon’ (2012)
G-Dragon - "Crayon" Video by BIGBANG
Witness K-pop as postmodern theater. G-Dragon — a member of the essential boy band BigBang — is one of the great pop synthesizers of the 2010s, and also a key figure in tethering K-pop to high fashion . “Crayon” is like Southern hip-hop on creatine, brought to the racetrack, then struck by lightning.
BTS, ‘DNA’ (2017)
BTS - "DNA" Video by ibighit
Peak hypercolor pop from the current boy band kings. BTS has had the most significant crossover into the American mainstream of any K-pop artist, having collaborated with Desiigner and Steve Aoki, and won a Billboard Music Award last year, a first for a Korean act.
A version of this article appears in print on February 8, 2018, on Page C6 of the New York edition with the headline: Torch Songs: A K-Pop Primer. Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe

