Eleven of the best photos from today’s 2018 Olympic Games
View Photos
Day 4 of the 2018 Winter Olympics in PyeongChang.
Caption
Day 4 of the 2018 Winter Olympics in PyeongChang.
Feb. 12, 2018  Chloe Kim, 17, of the United States posted the top score during qualifying Monday to earn the top seed in Tuesday’s final in women’s halfpipe snowboarding. Kim was the only rider to go over 90 points, putting up 91.50 in her first run and topping it with 95.50 in her second. Sergei Ilnitsky/European Pressphoto Agency/EFE/Rex/Shutterstock
Buy Photo
Wait 1 second to continue.
Canada held a commanding lead heading into Monday’s final phase of the competition (which consisted of the men’s, women’s and dance free skates) with 45 points. OAR occupied the silver medal spot, with 39, and the United States stood third (36). With it virtually impossible to overtake Canada, the Americans focused on outperforming the OAR and fending off Italy, which lurked one point behind.
The men’s free skate kicked off the competition. American Adam Rippon, 28, was elegant in his Olympic debut, turning in an emotive skate to Coldplay’s “O (Fly On),” which via costume and opening tableau told the story of a bird with a broken wing ultimately taking flight. But Rippon omitted his planned quadruple jump at the outset, substituting a double axel instead, and judges deemed his triple Lutz under-rotated. While his spins were lovely and Rippon projected sheer joy in taking his bow, judges were unmoved by a quad-less effort. His score, 172.98, was more than four points off his season’s best mark for the program, and it placed him third among the five competitors — putting the U.S. two points further in arrears to Canada and one point behind OAR.
Siblings Maia and Alex Shibutani returned to the ice one day after doing their short program to compete their free dance and contributed another nine points toward the U.S. tally, finishing second to Canada’s top-ranked duo.
[ No American woman has landed a triple axel in an Olympics. Mirai Nagasu intends to try twice ]
The women’s skate represented the moment Nagasu had waited for since her fourth-place finish at the 2010 Vancouver Games.
She awoke at 4 a.m., nervous about shouldering such a responsibility for her teammates and her country. But she didn’t give a thought to omitting the risky triple axel. That jump — and the prospect of becoming the first American and just the third woman in history to land it at the Olympics, after Japan’s Midori Ito and Mao Asada — was the sole reason she kept training after being passed over for the 2014 Olympic team. Even before she could do the triple axel, she dreamed she could. She dreamed of landing it so much, in fact, that she thinks she may have taught it to herself subliminally.
The falls, the bruises and aches over the years attest otherwise. But Monday was her moment. It was her vindication.
“Midori Ito, Mao Asada and now Mirai Nagasu — all Japanese heritage,” Nagasu said afterward, with a proud smile. “But I am fortunate that I am American, so I’ll be the first U.S. lady to have landed the triple axel [in Olympic competition]. So today is a day of accomplishment for me.”

