Share |
The NBA card for Sunday February 11th features eight games on the schedule to the delight of pro basketball bettors worldwide. Two games will air over national television.
Bet NBA pro basketball at Oddsmaker sportsbook, where bettors can now Claim their Free 100% Bonus up to $1000. Sign up today and get into the excitement of watching and wagering on NBA pro basketball all the way up to the Finals scheduled for early June!
At 3:30PM Eastern Time on ABC TV the Boston Celtics will host the Cleveland Cavaliers. The current odds available for wagering at Oddsmaker, where the bonuses are the best in the business has the home side Boston Celtics favored by -5 points with the over under line set at 213 points. The Cleveland Cavaliers are expected to have their traded players available and in the lineup on Sunday. Coming to the Cavaliers prior to the trading deadline are Jordan Clarkson, Rodney Hood, Larry Nance Jr. and George Hill. Cleveland played without their traded players on Friday and came away with the 123-107 victory at Atlanta. It is now a two game win streak for the Cavs. In their win against the Hawks, bench players Kyle Korver had 30 pints and Jeff Green chipped in with 24. Lebron James had a triple double with 22 points, 19 rebounds and 12 assists. Boston has dropped two of their past three games after their 97-91 home defeat to Indiana on Friday night. Boston has been held to 91 points in two of their past three games all resulting in defeats. Celtics fell behind 59-38 at the half in the loss to the Pacers. Boston shot poorly in defeat hitting 38.2% with 7 of 27 coming from the three point line.
On NBA TV at 7PM Eastern Time the Houston Rockets have a home date with the Dallas Mavericks. Houston is favored by -13 ½ points with the total set at 216 ½ points. Dallas Mavericks are on a back to back in this spot as they break a two game losing streak in a 130-123 victory at home to the LA Lakers. Mavericks had lost seven of their past nine games as they took the court against LA. Houston is hot right now as the team has won seven straight and nine of their past ten games. Houston just finished a four game road trip then hosted Denver on Friday and came away with a 26 point victory.
This entry was posted               on Sunday, February 11th, 2018 at 5:56 pm      and is filed under Basketball , NBA , Sports .       You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed.                Both comments and pings are currently closed.

