Eyebrow for SEO purposes
How Music in Figure Skating Has Changed
The use of pop and rock music is no longer a novelty in competitive figure skating: A look at the music choices of figure skaters
By Jieqian Zhang
Published Feb. 9, 2018 at 5:30 a.m. ET
Mozart and Tchaikovsky are getting more competition from the likes of Queen, Coldplay and Snow Patrol in the music choices of U.S. figure skaters. A change in the rules shortly after the Sochi Olympics allowing the use of music with vocals in competition gave the sport a fresher look and helped skaters connect with audiences. Once dominated by classical music and soundtracks from films and Broadway musicals, figure skating is seeing some bolder music choices.
In the 2009-2010 season, 47% of the music used by U.S. singles and pairs figure skaters was classical. That figure has slipped to 25% in the current season.
At the 2010 Vancouver Olympics, American Evan Lysacek won gold after skating both programs to classical music: Stravinsky's “The Firebird” and Rimsky-Korsakov's “Scheherazade”.
Tap to enable audio
Music from movie and Broadway soundtracks remains a favorite among American skaters, with Jason Brown capitalizing on the “Hamilton” craze by skating his short program to “The Room Where It Happens.”
Tap to enable audio
Rock and pop have gained popularity over the years.
In late 2014, new rules allowed singles and pairs skaters to use music with vocals (it was already permitted in ice dance), opening the way for hip-hop to appear in competition.
At the 2018 U.S. Figure Skating Championships, Jimmy Ma boldly skated to a hip-hop-electronic dance mix of DJ Snake and Lil Jon’s “Turn Down for What.”
Tap to enable audio
Music used by U.S. figure skaters
(each dot represents one performance)
Classical
Hip-Hop/R&B
What Team USA Dances To
Figure skating fans have seen more diverse choices in competitions in recent years. However, that trend may not be as pronounced among the skaters competing at the Olympics. In a sport where judges are notoriously conservative, the medal contenders typically are more cautious with their musical choices.
In the nine years on the road to Pyeongchang, the 2018 Team USA skaters still leaned heavily on classical music and soundtracks.
Music used by the 2018 Team USA skaters in the past nine years
Team USA’s Olympic Picks
Movies and musicals are the absolute favorite source of music for Team USA. Here is an overview of all the music used by U.S. figure skaters in the past two Winter Olympics and the upcoming Pyeongchang Games:
Vancouver 2010
Carmen selection ● Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini ● Firebird ● Schezerade ● Fallen Angel ● Symphony No.3 ● Tosca ● Pirates of the Caribbean ● Fragile Dreams ● Sing Sing Sing ● Love Actually soundtrack ● I Love you, I Hate You ● A Day in the Life
Sochi 2014
Piano Concerto in A Minor ● The Sleeping Beauty ● Samson and Delilah ● Solveig’s Song ● Lillies of the Valley ● Skyfall ● Carousel Waltz ● Les Miserables ● Besame Mucho ● Shine on Your Crazy Diamond ● the Question of U ● Reel Around the Sun ● Exogenesis Symphony III ● Black Magic Woman ● Smooth
Pyeongchang 2018
Nocturne No. 20 in C Sharp Minor ● Mao’s Last Dance ● Moulin Rouge soundtrack ● Arrival of the Birds ● On Golden Pond soundtrack ● Miss Saigon ● Cinderella medley ● Taeguki by Lee Dong-Jun ● Tango Tzigane ● Nemesis ● Let Me Think About It ● Chasing Cars ● O
What Everyone Else Will be Dancing To
Overall, about 25% of the figure skating music at this year’s Olympics will still be classical, so expect to hear plenty of selections from “Turandot,”  “Carmen” and Debussy in Pyeongchang.
Some skaters are being very strategic in using pop and rock. Hungary’s Ivett Toth skates her short program to AC/DC
but offsets the edginess with a “Carmen” free skate, also known as the long program. France’s Maé-Bérénice Méité chose Beyoncé’s “Halo”
for the short, but Chopin for the long.
Music in Pyeongchang Olympics’ singles and pairs skating,
by genres and top seven countries
(each dot represents one performance)
Skaters from Russia, where figure skating and ballet traditions run deep, are relatively conservative in their music choices. Skaters from Canada and the U.S. are more open to pop/rock music. American Adam Rippon includes Coldplay’s  “O”
in his free skate and Eddie Thoneick’s remix of “Let Me Think About It”
for his short program. Canada’s Patrick Chan—men’s silver medalist in Sochi—has an unusual short program this season with “Dust in the Wind”
by Kansas.
Methodology
The data only show music used in figure skating competitions, which include short and free skating programs. Music used in exhibition programs is not included. The data only show women’s single, men’s single and pairs figure skating. Ice dance is not included.
Music genre is classified by The Wall Street Journal, based on Spotify’s API. Classical music includes traditional and modern. Soundtrack includes film and TV scores and musical theater showtunes. World music include tango, mambo, rumba and other dance music.
Source

