Local Sports , Sports
The Telegraph
Alton’s Cassie Bowman led her team at Saturday’s IHSA Girl Sectional Bowling Tournament at NuBowl Lanes in Mt. Vernon. Bowman bowled a 1,169 series for six games, but the Redbirds fell short of advancing as a team to next weekend’s state tournament in Rockford. Also, no Telegraph-area bowlers qualified as individuals for the state tourney. Bowlman is pictured in action at last weekend’s Alton Regional Tourney at Bowl Haven.
Nathan Woodside | For The Telegraph
MT. VERNON — Alton High’s dreams of a trip to the IHSA Girls State Bowling Tournament came to an end one tournament short Saturday.
The Redbirds finished out of the running for a team slot at next weekend’s state meet in Rockford with an 11th-place finish at Saturday’s Mount Vernon Girls Sectional Tournament at NuBowl Lanes. Also, no Telegraph-area bowlers qualified for the state meet as an individual.
“The girls didn’t finish the season as they had hoped,” Alton coach Dave Meyer said. “I’m very proud of the girls for advancing as a team to the sectional.”
At last week’s Alton Regional Tournament, the Redbirds grabbed the fourth and final sectional team spot and Redbirds junior Alex Bergin was the individual champion.
“The girls worked hard today as a rebuilding team and bowled a few higher games than in other tournaments,” Meyer said.
Cassie Bowman led the way for Alton with a 1,169 series for six games and Bergin followed with a 1,150 series.
“Alex had a great look in the morning and was in sixth place,” Meyer said, “but she had a rough afternoon.”
O’Fallon won the team title with 6,193 pins, followed by Belleville East with 5,894, Herrin 5,754 and Salem 5,639. The top four teams qualify for the state meet, set for Friday and Saturday at Cherry Bowl Lanes in Rockford.
Collinsville was fifth with 5,460, followed by Harrisburg 5,442, Vandalia 5,356, Highland 5,263, Columbia 5,124, Triad 5,007, Alton 4,846 and Waterloo 4,635.
O’Fallon’s Abby Gray was the individual champion with 1,329 pins. Individuals qualifying for state included Stephanie Jacobs of Freeburg with 1,309, Emma Schuster of Highland 1,307, Harrisburg’s Elizabeth Davis and Claire McDermott with 1,305 and 1,302 respectively and Hailey Gardner of Collinsville with 1,268.
“We have a lot to look forward to next year,” Meyer said, ” because we are only losing four bowlers.”
Alton’s Cassie Bowman led her team at Saturday’s IHSA Girl Sectional Bowling Tournament at NuBowl Lanes in Mt. Vernon. Bowman bowled a 1,169 series for six games, but the Redbirds fell short of advancing as a team to next weekend’s state tournament in Rockford. Also, no Telegraph-area bowlers qualified as individuals for the state tourney. Bowlman is pictured in action at last weekend’s Alton Regional Tourney at Bowl Haven.
http://www.thetelegraph.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/web1_212CassieBowmanAltonBowling.jpg
Alton’s Cassie Bowman led her team at Saturday’s IHSA Girl Sectional Bowling Tournament at NuBowl Lanes in Mt. Vernon. Bowman bowled a 1,169 series for six games, but the Redbirds fell short of advancing as a team to next weekend’s state tournament in Rockford. Also, no Telegraph-area bowlers qualified as individuals for the state tourney. Bowlman is pictured in action at last weekend’s Alton Regional Tourney at Bowl Haven.
Nathan Woodside | For The Telegraph
The Telegraph

