TUSCALOOSA — Collin Sexton trailed Tennessee’s Jordan Bone on a breakaway layup opportunity off a turnover.
If anything, he’d be there to inbound the ball after the fastbreak score.
But when Bone missed the wide-open attempt, Sexton gathered the rebound and proceeded to slice through the Volunteers for a layup to give Alabama a 15-point lead early in the second half.
“I feel like when we’re running, we’re at our best.” Sexton said. 
It was that sort of game for Alabama, which easily dispatched another Top 25 opponent at home with a 78-50 victory over No. 15 Tennessee on Saturday at Coleman Coliseum.
“I saw a level of concentration and tenacity and hunger and feeling unafraid to make mistakes, and when we did, we just bounced back,” Alabama coach Avery Johnson said. “The focus was there, you could see it all during the timeouts. They were ready to play.”
It was Alabama's fifth consecutive win over a Top 25 opponent and the largest in school history over a Top 15 team. It also snapped the Volunteers’ six-game win streak, while helping solidify Alabama’s NCAA tourney resume.
“Honestly, I think versus those (Top 25) teams, we show up to play more,” Sexton said, “but we have to come in every game ready to play, and today we were ready to play.”
Added fellow freshman John Petty: “We always come here prepared for big games.”
Alabama (16-9, 7-5 SEC) looks for a second straight win Tuesday at home against LSU ahead of a two-game road trip. Alabama hasn’t won two in a row since a four-game streak in mid-January.
“We’ve got to be able to respond,” Johnson said. “We’ll see what kind of preparation we have tomorrow, … we’ll see how (the players) respond after they talk to their friends and their family, and for those on social media — because one day (it’s) they shouldn’t have been recruited, and one day (it’s) the coach should be given his walking papers, but that’s how it goes.”
After a 3 of 22 effort from 3-point range in a loss at Mississippi State on Tuesday, Alabama did much of its damage inside Saturday, outscoring the Vols 50-18 on points in the paint.
“We didn’t want to settle for jumpers because we haven’t been shooting (them) well, so we tried to play from the basket back out to the 3-point line,” Johnson said. “But give our guards credit for penetrating, our bigs finished inside, and fortunately when we drove, we were in the right spots for most of the night.”
Junior forward Donta Hall led the Tide with 17 points on 8 of 10 shooting and a team-high 11 rebounds for his fifth double-double.
Sexton added 16 points and four assists, while John Petty scored 14 points. He was 3 of 4 from 3-point range, with four assists.
"We were having fun.," Sexton said. "And when we’re having fun, it’s hard to beat us.”
The fun was evident from the tip.
Alabama made its first four shots and eventually settled on a 37-27 halftime lead.
Alabama made its first seven field goals of the second half — including three straight dunks — to take a 52-34.
“With this group, I didn’t think we could be that bad,” Barnes said. “The very first play of the game set the tone. … Defensively it’s as bad as we’ve played all year long.”
Tennessee made only 2 of its final 17 shots as Alabama pulled away for what turned out to be an easy win.

