Champions League
watt now?
Ex-Celtic ace Tony Watt quits Belgian side OH Leuven and heads back to Scotland as he searches for TENTH club of his career
The move to Belgium was Watt's ninth club after leaving the Hoops permanently in 2014 and will now be looking for a new club as he becomes a free agent
By Ryan Maher
13th February 2018, 7:42 am
Updated: 13th February 2018, 7:43 am
FORMER Celtic striker Tony Watt is on the lookout for the TENTH club of his career after leaving Belgium side Oud-Heverlee Leuven.
Watt joined the Second Division outfit last summer on a one-year contract but failed to establish himself as a first-team regular.
Kenny Ramsay - The Sun Glasgow
2
Watt become a Celtic icon after scoring the winner against Barcelona
One chapter closed. Another one opens. Thank you @ohl_official for the time I spent! Unfortunately I never played much football when the new manager came in but we left it on good terms. That’s football. I’ll have time to see my next step now!  pic.twitter.com/kSAFCcMn9n
— Tony Watt (@Tony_Watt7) February 12, 2018
But following manager Dennis van Wijk’s shock exit just weeks later, Watt failed to get game time under ex-Leicester City boss Nigel Pearson.
Now, Watt has confirmed that he has left the club and wrote on Twitter: “One chapter closed. Another one opens.
 
BET £10 WITH SUN BETS AND GET A FREE £30 BET
“Thank you @ohl_official for the time I spent!
“Unfortunately I never played much football when the new manager came in but we left it on good terms.
“That’s football. I’ll have time to see my next step now!”
He added in another tweet: “I’m predicting some negativity so I’ll delete the Twitter app for 48 hours troops have a good one! Back to (Scotland flag emoji) now.”
A Leuven club statement read: “OHL and Tony Watt bid farewell to each other in mutual consultation.
Andy Barr - The Sun Glasgow
Watt joined Hearts on loan last season but failed to see through his year deal
“The Scottish striker was bought in August but could not make his mark.
“We thank Tony for his efforts and wish him every success with the rest of his career.”
Journeyman forward Watt came through the ranks at Airdrie before being bought by Celtic for £80,000 in January 2011 – pipping Rangers to the teenagers signature.
After scoring twice on his debut against Motherwell an 18-year-old Watt wrote his name into Hoops’ history after scoring the winning goal against Barcelona in 2012.
Since then the former Scotland international has had spells with Lierse and Standard Liege in Belgium, Charlton, Cardiff and Blackburn Rovers.
Last season the forward joined Hearts on a season-long loan from Charlton but left after one goal in six months.
Kilmarnock 1 Celtic 0: Brendan Rodgers' men stunned by Steve Clarke's side as Youssouf Mulumbu grabs winner
 

