Joffrey Ballet Partners with MOR, RUMC
Posted on
by sportsmedicineweekly
Sports medicine  and  foot and ankle  specialists from Midwest Orthopaedics at Rush (MOR), who are also on staff at  Rush University Medical Center  (RUMC), have been selected to serve as preferred medical providers for  The Joffrey Ballet , the world-class dance company located in Chicago.
The Joffrey Ballet is the newest professional athletic organization for which this practice provides medical care. MOR physicians are also medical providers for Hubbard Street Dance Chicago, the Chicago White Sox, the Chicago Fire Soccer Club, and the Chicago Bulls.
Dr. Simon Lee , foot and ankle orthopedic surgeon and  Dr. Leda Ghannad , sports medicine physician, will serve as head physicians for The Joffrey Ballet. Colleagues  Drs. Johnny Lin  and  Kamran Hamid , also foot and ankle orthopedic specialists will round out the medical team for The Joffrey Ballet.
“We will work with the on-site ballet therapists to help the dancers perform in optimal condition, and if an injury does occur, we can immediately provide the required care to minimize time away from performing,” explains Dr. Lee.
An MOR physician will monitor the Joffrey’s on-site training room once a week and attend each of the Chicago performances in February, April and in the summer of 2018. If a higher level of medical care is needed, dancers will be treated at the MOR clinic or at RUMC. The Joffrey team physicians will also provide care for Joffrey staff members.
Approximately 40 percent of dancers’ injuries involve lower extremities, which are typically overuse injuries. “We understand ballet dancers who are a tough breed of elite athletes with rigorous and lengthy daily practice sessions,” says Dr. Ghannad. “While they may sustain acute injuries, dancers’ foot and ankle injuries are usually caused by repetitive movements.”
About The Joffrey Ballet
The Joffrey Ballet is a world-class, Chicago-based ballet company and dance education organization committed to artistic excellence and innovation, presenting a unique repertoire encompassing masterpieces of the past and cutting-edge works. The Joffrey is committed to providing arts education and accessible dance training through its Joffrey Academy of Dance and Community Engagement programs.
About Midwest Orthopaedics at Rush
Rush University Medical Center’s orthopedics program is ranked #1 in Illinois, according to U.S. News and World Report magazine’s 2017-2018 Best Hospitals issue. Rush also has one of the top sports medicine residency and fellowship training programs in the country.
Share this:

