February 13
2 hours ago, ipiratemedia said:
I enjoy the summer Olympics. Winter Olympics, we really suck! After so many years of disappointments, we gotten worse. IMO. There aren’t enough big Winter Olympic moments. Which moments do you remember most? The Miracle on Ice, if you’re old enough. But what else? Nancy and Tonya was a big moment. There was the Jamaican bobsled team. You probably remember a few big skiing accidents. So outside of the Miracle on Ice, the biggest Winter Olympics moments are… failures? Every Summer Olympics are a veritable One Shining Moment reel of highlights. Michael Phelps slapping on the water, urging his teammates forward. Usain Bolt’s relaxed smile as he breaks the tape in stride. Kerri Strug’s determined grimace as she lands on one leg. You could come up with 15 more summer moments without even trying. Where are the Winter Olympics moments? How many things will happen the next three weeks that will have everyone talking around the water cooler the next day? Will anything?
 
The United States is just better at summer stuff. Bet you don’t need two guesses to figure out who tops the all-time Summer Olympic leaderboard. It’s us, with 2,522 medals. We have more gold medals than anyone else has medals. Suck it, rest of the world. The Summer Olympics are better because we are better at Summer Olympics. No red-blooded American is tuning in to watch us lose a badminton match. We are only addicted to watching swimming and gymnastics because we win. You wouldn’t tune in to watch Katie Ledecky swim laps if she was going to finish sixth. Ever been to the grocery store when there’s snow on the way? It’s like the apocalypse. Americans PANIC at the first sight of winter. We skate on dates and ski when we’re rich. That’s it. We run and swim and play basketball all the time. We’re just better at that crap. What Winter Olympic events are can’t-miss? Maybe an ice skating final? Anything else? Perhaps a hockey gold-medal match? There’s another problem — not enough team sports. Summer Olympics has basketball, volleyball, handball, water polo. Winter Olympics is pretty much just hockey, and we’re not even sending pros anymore so that stinks now, too.
The Winter Olympics are sexist. I’m sorry you had to find out this way. There are 53 men’s-only events at the Winter Olympics and only 46 for women. Uhh… anybody ever heard of Title IX?? There are three men’s ski jumping events but just one for women. There’s a thing called Nordic combined that leaves women out altogether. Why can’t women be counted on to ski jump? Are we afraid of breaking their tiny osteoporotic bones? Are we still living in the 1800s?
The athletes are less identifiable because they’re buried under 17 layers of clothing. Quick, name three athletes you’re looking forward to watching at the Olympics. Go ahead, I’ll wait. Heck, how many American Winter Olympians can you name ever? You got Shaun White and Apolo Anton Ohno. Who else do you remember from the past couple decades before you start dropping Brian Boitano and Scott Hamilton references? You remember Tonya Harding and Nancy Kerrigan, but not because of what they did on the ice. That’s like 25 years of memorable American Winter Olympians in one paragraph. And would you even recognize these folks if you saw them in the supermarket? Or would you need to see them in a sleek bodysuit or a bunch of layers to figure out who they were?
The athletes are less identifiable because they just don’t win that much. You know an easy way to recognize Katie Ledecky when you run into her at the mall? By the five gold medals she wears around her neck at all times. Athletes win multiple medals all the time at the Summer Olympics. Our best swimmers are practically drowning in medals. Winter Olympians just don’t win multiple gold medals. Eric Heiden won five golds at Lake Placid. Bonnie Blair won each in ‘92 and ‘94. Irving Jaffee and Jack Shea won two golds each in 1932, probably because Jesse Owens wasn’t allowed on the ice yet. That’s it. Five Americans in history have won multiple golds at one Winter Olympics. No wonder we don’t know them! Wouldn’t you think Shaun White must’ve won like four or five medals in Sochi? Nope. None. He finished fourth in his lone event. The all-time American winter medal leader is Apolo Ohno with eight. Michael Phelps won eight gold medals in one week! He has TWENTY-EIGHT medals. Our entire 300-million-person nation won 28 medals last Winter Olympics. At the current rate of climate change, we can’t possibly have more than two, maybe three Winter Olympics left anyway. Can’t say we’ll miss ‘em… Peace Joey 
 
 
Those are some good Olympic moments Joey! I love summers better also, I love volleyball, beach and regular team, I dob't like soccer, but I love it at t h e  Olympics,  some of the running events are good, the relay races are really exciting, overall less judges deciding who wins, and more who scores the most points, runs the fastest, jumps the highest, etc etc, I love watching the Gymasts, less who wins, just awesome atheletes!
1

