Xavier basketball on track for a No. 1 NCAA Tournament seed? Selection committee says yes
Patrick Brennan , pbrennan@enquirer.com Published 2:21 p.m. ET Feb. 11, 2018 | Updated 9:38 p.m. ET Feb. 11, 2018
CLOSE
The Arizona State Sun Devils downed No. 15 Xavier to win the 2017 Continental Tire Las Vegas Invitational championship game. The Enquirer/Patrick Brennan
Xavier Musketeers head coach Chris Mack shouts to his offense in the first half of the NCAA Big East Conference basketball game between the Butler Bulldogs and the Xavier Musketeers at Hinkle Fieldhouse in Indianapolis on Tuesday, Feb. 6, 2018. Xavier led 40-30 at halftime.
(Photo: Sam Greene)
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN 2 COMMENTEMAILMORE
"If the season ended today..."
That's essentially how the NCAA Tournament Selection Committee prefaced Sunday's March Madness preview TV show that gave fans a dose of hype along with some longshot insight into how they're thinking a month out from the actual final seeding announcement. 
If only the season ended today for Xavier basketball. 
In the make-believe world where there isn't a month of college basketball still to be played, the Musketeers are a No. 1 seed in the tournament, according to the Selection Committee. 
Xavier was placed atop that high, coveted pedestal Sunday during the preview TV event as the committee revealed the Musketeers (23-3, 11-2 Big East) as the projected No. 1-seed in the Midwest Region. 
Xavier was slotted in as the third No. 1 seed.
The Musketeers, the No. 3 overall seed, were picked behind the overall Nos. 1 and 2 seeds, Virginia and Villanova, respectively, and ahead of overall fourth-seeded Purdue. 
Is this what the 2018 Sweet 16 will look like? #BracketPreview https://t.co/PxBQXWxUP0 pic.twitter.com/Rdru8SJez5
— NCAA March Madness (@marchmadness) February 11, 2018
A No. 1 seed would be a significant accomplishment for the Musketeers as they've never had one previously. 
Even head coach Chris Mack, who has publicly eschewed talk of where this Xavier team fits in the grand scheme of program history, would have to admit that's an accomplishment that would pay dividends in recruiting, fundraising and elsewhere. 
There were strings attached to Xavier's projected No. 1 seed, obviously. One is that it's unlikely Xavier and Villanova, both of the Big East Conference, would both claim a one-seed.
Rather, the two programs will likely fight over a one-seed over the coming weeks, and neither team can afford a letdown now through the end of the season if they want to stay in control of their path to top-seeding. 
Xavier steals 72-71 win at Creighton
Saturday's game between the Musketeers and Wildcats at Cintas Center will have a big say in which way the one-seed is handed out. 
Additionally, Xavier has five regular season Big East games left, and at least six total contests if you factor in the Big East Tournament and assume the worst – a one-and-done quarterfinal exit.
It's more likely Xavier has seven or, if it advances to the Big East title game at Madison Square Garden, eight games left. 
To continue on the path to the one-seed unobstructed, Xavier would likely have to win out in the regular season and do some damage at the league tournament next month.
Pundits have suggested there hasn't been one dominant team in America this season, so it stands to reason Xavier could fall off the one-line and fight its way back based on the trend of hectic shuffling at the top of recent national polls. 
Either way, Xavier's in the mix for a one-seed and no one should be surprised about it. The Musketeers' resume has been stellar all season and they've only lost to top opponents. 

