By Amy Davidson Sorkin
February 6, 2018
The subject of President Trump’s latest tirade wasn’t the Eagles or the Patriots but the death of Edwin Jackson, a linebacker for the Indianapolis Colts.
Photograph by Ty Wright / Bloomberg via Getty
Certain post-Super Bowl rituals are often more notable when they are breached than when they are followed, and that is particularly true when politics is involved. One can debate what the failure of Tom Brady, the New England Patriots quarterback, to find and congratulate Nick Foles, the former backup quarterback who won the game for the Philadelphia Eagles on Sunday, said about Brady’s sportsmanship; it might not have said anything, other than that the field was crowded and chaotic. But the gestures of the Eagles players who, in the hours and days afterward, said that they would not accept an invitation to the White House were not so hard to decipher. Some were more specific than others: Malcolm Jenkins, a safety for the Eagles, said that he wanted to send a clear message about reforming the criminal-justice system and improving communities’ relationships with the police. Trump, throughout the season, had decried players’ efforts to speak to that issue—by taking a knee during the playing of the national anthem—as an affront to America and reason for them to be fired. His tweeted outrage was derisive, racially charged, and, frankly, bizarre. (What is disrespectful about kneeling?) And, with Trump, there is always a good likelihood that an event intended to congratulate others will turn into a ritual of self-congratulation. Most players have a sense of the President at this point. As Torrey Smith, a wide receiver for the Eagles, put it before the game , in explaining why he wouldn’t go to the White House if his team won, “We read the news just like everyone else.”
Trump reads the news, too, in his way. Last year, he had, to his mind, solved the problem of the Golden State Warriors players who, after their team won the N.B.A. championship, appeared less than enthusiastic about hanging out with him in the Oval Office: he disinvited the team. (“Going to the White House is considered a great honor for a championship team. Stephen Curry is hesitating, therefore invitation is withdrawn!”) Before the Super Bowl this year, Trump tweeted out demands for standing during the anthem; the players did stand, for reasons of their own, leaving him with no one, immediately, to berate. (He didn’t go to the game, in Minneapolis, but watched it from Mar-a-Lago.) He was left, instead, to tweet out a bland line of congratulations. It took him until Tuesday morning to find his true, bitter post-Super Bowl voice.
The subject was not the Eagles or the Patriots but the deaths, in the early-morning hours on Sunday, of Edwin Jackson , a linebacker for the Indianapolis Colts, and Jeffrey Monroe, a driver for a ride-hailing app. Jackson had, reportedly, been out with friends the night before and, responsibly, called for a car. Apparently, he didn’t feel well, and Monroe pulled over on the shoulder of a highway. They were struck and killed by a driver whose alcohol level, measured in a breath test, was about three times the legal limit. The driver first tried to flee the scene, then gave the police a false name. On Monday, the Indiana State Police announced that his real name was Manuel Orrego-Savala, that he was a Guatemalan who had been deported from the United States twice, and that he appeared to be in the country illegally.
The President responded, “So disgraceful that a person illegally in our country killed @Colts linebacker Edwin Jackson. This is just one of many such preventable tragedies. We must get the Dems to get tough on the Border, and with illegal immigration, FAST!” A few minutes later, perhaps remembering that he had skipped a step, he added, “My prayers and best wishes are with the family of Edwin Jackson, a wonderful young man whose life was so senselessly taken. @Colts.” Then he went back to politics, with his standard accusations of bad faith: “Polling shows nearly 7 in 10 Americans support an immigration reform package that includes DACA, fully secures the border, ends chain migration & cancels the visa lottery. If D’s oppose this deal, they aren’t serious about DACA—they just want open borders.” (Those were the same Democrats, presumably, whom he had accused, in a speech on Monday, of “treasonous” behavior for not applauding during his State of the Union speech. They did not, he suggested, love their country, because they did not love him.) Another tweet quickly followed: “We need a 21st century MERIT-BASED immigration system. Chain migration and the visa lottery are outdated programs that hurt our economic and national security.”
It had taken just a few turns at Twitter for the President to move from an alleged crime involving a drunk man with no documentation to an argument for ending family reunification—that is, for expressing unhappiness with the reasons that people are documented. Trump had turned a single highway tragedy into an object of demographic panic. Jackson was only twenty-six years old. He deserves a life, and an afterlife, as something other than a stock character in a Trump tirade against immigration. The issue is not just politicizing a death; a death certainly can have political meaning. The question is on whose terms it is done, with recognition of and respect for the actual people involved.
Football itself is an amplifier; it is very rarely a clarifier. There were other reminders of that in the aftermath of the Super Bowl, as observers tried, for example, to figure out what Ram Trucks had been thinking when it used an excerpt from a speech by Martin Luther King, Jr., in a commercial that aired during the game. (In that same speech, King criticized the status-driven imperatives of car ads.) At the same time, relatively few of the commercials this year were either politically oriented or particularly creative. That is not to say that creativity and politics travel together; the opposite is often true.
A few days before the game, Kellyanne Conway, a counsellor to Trump, who had grown up in southern New Jersey, in Eagles territory, offered this insight, on a Philadelphia radio show: “The New England Patriots are like Hillary Clinton, the establishment—can’t lose, here you come again, you’re in the finals again and again and again.” In contrast, she said, the Eagles were like her boss, the “insurgent candidate, ultimately successful, Donald J. Trump.” Never mind that, during the 2016 campaign, Trump touted his friendships with Robert Kraft, the Patriots’ owner; Bill Belichick, their head coach; and Tom Brady, their quarterback, as examples of his winningness. Conway may have only been saying that she liked the Eagles and Trump and didn’t like the Patriots and Clinton; that doesn’t mean that the connections, or her choices, make much sense.
Brady, meanwhile, had seemed to relish his ties to Trump until last fall, when the President started demanding that some of his teammates be fired for taking a knee during the anthem. After Trump told a crowd of his supporters at a rally in Alabama, “Wouldn’t you love to see one of these N.F.L. owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, ‘Get that son of a bitch off the field right now. Out. He’s fired. He’s fired!’ ” Brady was asked about those remarks, during a sports-radio interview. “Yeah, I certainly disagree with what he said. I thought it was just divisive,” Brady said. Reportedly, things haven’t been the same since.
Amy Davidson Sorkin, a New Yorker staff writer, is a regular contributor to Comment for the magazine and writes a Web column , in which she covers war, sports, and everything in between.

