Continue reading the main story
If that spoils some of the most savory Milos mythology in circulation, don’t worry: Copious amounts of YouTube footage of his audacious passing is only a click away. A quick internet search will likewise confirm that, for all the fears about how he’d cope with the length and athleticism he’s now seeing daily as the N.B.A.’s oldest rookie — especially given his well-chronicled defensive shortcomings — there is no shortage of Teodosic highlights in a Clippers jersey.
“He still has his razzle-dazzle going,” Dekker said.
Not long after the Clippers saw their All-Star point guard Chris Paul force his way to Houston last June, they signed Teodosic to a two-year deal worth $12.3 million. On a Basketball Without Borders junket in Israel on behalf of the league in August, Dekker found himself being regaled by Israeli reporters with tales about the uncommon vision and flair he was about to be exposed to.
“My immediate reaction,” Dekker said, “was that I better go look this guy up.”
It’s a true shame that N.B.A. assistant coaches overlooked Teodosic in the voting for the annual Rising Stars game featuring first- and second-year players that gets All-Star Weekend underway in earnest next Friday night. The All-Star festivities are in Los Angeles this season and Teodosic belongs in that game not only as a showman supreme who sports the bonus of local ties but because of his impact for the better-than-expected Clippers, who are 17-8 when he’s in uniform and 11-18 when he’s out. Heading into Monday night’s game in Brooklyn, L.A. is also a meaty plus-5.8 points per 100 possessions better this season when he is on the floor compared to when he sits.
Teodosic, though, doesn’t feel slighted in the least.
“Being in All-Star any way is something big and good,” he said. “But I’m 30 years old. Maybe some younger guys should go there and feel this feeling.”
Photo
Teodosic, left, in action during a Euroleague playoff game in May 2017. Credit Lefteris Pitarakis/Associated Press
When he was 26, Teodosic was courted hard in free agency by the Memphis Grizzlies. He came close to accepting their offer in the summer of 2013, only to decide he couldn’t bear to leave for the United States until he won a Euroleague title. He never expected that it would take another three years, but his European critics were finally hushed when Teodosic led CSKA Moscow to the second-most prestigious club basketball championship in the world in 2016.
The expiration of his second three-year CSKA contract after the 2016-17 season then set him up, at last, to make the leap to sample N.B.A. life and try to quiet the critics on both sides of the Atlantic who would have branded his résumé incomplete without a stint on U.S. shores.
Teodosic said it felt “weird” to be branded a rookie, after winning Euroleague Most Valuable Player honors as far back as 2010 and unexpectedly steering Serbia into the gold medal game against the mighty United States at both the 2014 FIBA World Cup and the 2016 Rio Olympics. “But I am happy they don’t treat me like a rookie,” Teodosic said of his fellow Clippers.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
That means no fetching bagels or doughnuts to bring to practice. No transporting of the veterans’ luggage or singing on teammates’ birthdays with the other first-year players. He arrived with too much hoopla to be assigned rookie chores, especially when, as Dekker put it, Teodosic “knows the game better than most of us.”
“I will feel sorry if I didn’t come here,” Teodosic said, admitting that he, too, felt something was missing in his career without an N.B.A. adventure. “I want to show myself I can play here with all these guys. I just feel sorry that I didn’t win Euroleague earlier and came here earlier.”
Yet he’s the first to say that they are largely two different games. In Europe, Teodosic capitalized on the smaller court, shorter games and lighter schedule, relying on his pick-and-roll guile to deal with all the bodies in the paint. In the N.B.A., there is more space to cover, far more nuance in the defensive assignments and, most crucially, less time to get shots off.
The superior quickness he encounters on the perimeter as a Clipper has surely contributed to Teodosic’s shooting struggles (38.2 percent from the floor), but health has been his biggest issue so far. Teodosic has started all 25 games he’s played, earning an unforeseen spot in Coach Doc Rivers’ first five in place of Patrick Beverley, who was his former teammate at Olympiacos in Greece and is not expected back this season after recovering from November knee surgery. But Teodosic, himself, has missed 28 games because of a nagging case of plantar fasciitis in his left foot.
Newsletter Sign Up
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred. Please try again later.
You are already subscribed to this email.

