Arsenal Bournemouth Brighton & Hove Albion Burnley Chelsea Crystal Palace Everton Huddersfield Town Leicester City Liverpool Manchester City Manchester United Newcastle United Southampton Stoke City Swansea City Tottenham Hotspur Watford West Bromwich Albion West Ham
Man Utd starlet Tahith Chong likened to GEORGE BEST after sensational U18 goal
MANCHESTER UNITED youngster Tahith Chong put in another show-stopping performance for the U18s, with some comparing him to a club legend.
/
Published 12th February 2018
The 18-year-old is one of the Red Devils most promising stars and showed Jose Mourinho his worth by netting on his U23 debut last month.
He was again the standout performer in United’s 2-1 defeat to Newcastle on Saturday, netting an impressive goal.
Footage from the match shows the midfielder picking the ball out of the air with a sensational first touch.
It takes out the opponent and the teenager then shows his composure to fire past the goalkeeper.
The Dutchman could have added to his tally late in the match but failed to convert a penalty.
Yet his dazzling display had fans questioning why he hasn’t got his chance in the senior squad, particularly given their own struggles against Newcastle at the weekend.
TWITTER/GETTY
Man Utd star Tahith Chong scored a brilliant goal for the U18s
“Need to see Tahith Chong get a chance in the first team as often as [Angel] Gomes – two exceptional talents,” one commented.
A second wrote: “Tahith Chong is an extreme talent.”
And a third went even further, adding: “Love to see Tahith Chong get a first-team opportunity, he has great balance.
Manchester United player ratings v Newcastle
 
MANCHESTER UNITED lost 1-0 away at Newcastle today - here are our player ratings for Jose Mourinho’s side.
1 / 15
Manchester United: Team average - 6.14
“The last player I saw with this type of balance was George Best.”
Best is widely regarded as one of the most talented English players ever, netting 181 goals in 474 appearances for Man Utd.
While Chong has some way to go before reaching anywhere near his levels, such performances are sure to put him in good stead.
Related articles

