Kieran McGeeney admits Armagh were ‘terrible’ in one-point win over Longford
Rory Grugan kicked a last-gasp winner for the hosts at the Athletic Grounds
By Orla Bannon
12th February 2018, 8:48 am
A SMASH-AND-GRAB victory for Armagh left manager Kieran McGeeney admitting: “We were terrible.”
Rory Grugan’s 75th-minute winner snatched two precious league points for the promotion chasers at the Athletic Grounds.
Sportsfile
3
Rory Grugan celebrates scoring his side’s winning point
But Armagh boss ‘Geezer’ said: “I thought we were terrible. We had 34 shots compared to their 18 or 19 but we did not bring our shooting boots.
“I suppose it’s a good sign that the team is coming on, they played so poorly and can still win a game.
“Last year we were going really well at times, maybe five or six points up in games and ended up either drawing or losing them.
“So it’s definitely a positive in that respect but I wouldn’t be jumping up and down about how we were shooting today.”
Grugan and Ethan Rafferty missed a glut of chances but came up with the goods in the end.
The latter’s controversial 69th-minute goal left 14-man Longford fuming.
Defender Donal McElligott, who had scored a 58th-minute penalty, appeared to be pushed in the back during a late Armagh attack.
Sportsfile
3
Rory Grugan scores the winning point
But referee Noel Mooney waved play on and seconds later Rafferty stuck the ball inside the near post.
That goal saw the scores levelled for the fourth time before Grugan’s last-gasp point put Armagh in front for the only time in the game.
Longford boss Denis Connerton raged: “We feel we were really let down by the officials.
“It’s not the first time this has happened to us.
“You need a little bit more protection and you need the officials to perform at a better level than they did today. Our performance in itself was magnificent.”
A wasteful Armagh shot eight second-half wides after Longford midfielder Andrew Farrell was shown a second yellow card in the 39th minute.
The visitors will wonder how this game got away from them, having led 0-4 to 0-1 after the first quarter.
Sportsfile
3
Armagh boss Kieran McGeeney
Armagh then went 16 minutes without a score before landing three in three minutes through Stephen Sheridan, Grugan and Rafferty.
Robbie Smyth led the Longford response, scoring three first-half points from frees.
A long-range score from Armagh’s Ben Crealey made it 0-8 to 0-5 in Longford’s favour at the break.
The teams drew level at nine points apiece in the 56th minute, with Rafferty and Gregory McCabe on target for Armagh.
McElligot’s penalty — after Brendan Donaghy handled on the ground — stretched Longford clear again.
But Armagh grabbed victory in dramatic fashion, scoring an unanswered 1-2 in the final minutes.
MOST READ SPORT
Galway captain Damien Comer suffered a double heartbreak yesterday
Guilty
Infamous ref Ovrebo admits blunders denied Chelsea 2009 Champions League final place
'OPEN THE DOOR YOU SL**'
Prem ace's fiancee TRAPS mistress in home after catching them out
SLING WARRIOR
Groves beats Eubank Jr in brutal and bloody Brit war despite shoulder injury
You're the Luan
Could Brazil star Luan be the man Liverpool need to replace Coutinho?
Taxi for Alan
Baggies boss Pardew given two games to save his job after 'taxi-gate'
GIVE AND TECH
Hawkeye issue apology for 'wobbly lines' VAR image for Mata's disallowed goal
access denied
Jesus closes on return to action without stranded entourage stuck in Brazil
Kenny's Fuming
Derry boss Kenny Shiels unhappy with newly-promoted Waterford's tactics
STOKED

